Work - Wikipedia — Work
Work - Wikipedia — Work may refer to:
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work (human activity), intentional activity people perform to support themselves, others, or the community
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Manual labour, physical work done by humans
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ House work, housework, or homemaking
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Working animal, an animal trained by humans to perform tasks
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work (physics), the product of force and displacement
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work (electric ﬁeld), the work done on a charged particle by an electric ﬁeld
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work (thermodynamics), energy transferred by the system to its surroundings
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Creative work, a manifestation of creative eﬀort
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work of art, an artistic creation of aesthetic value
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Career, an individual's journey through learning, work and other aspects of life
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Employment, a relationship between two parties where work is paid for
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ WORK (FM), now WRFK (FM), an American radio station in Vermont
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ WORK-LP, an American low-power TV station in New Hampshire
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ WOYK, an American AM radio station in Pennsylvania, known as WORK 1932–1973
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ The Work (band), an English post-punk rock group
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work Group, an American record label
Work - Wikipedia — Music
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work (EP), a 2015 EP by Marcus Marr and Chet Faker
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work!, a 1986 album by Mulgrew Miller
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work 1989–2002, a 2002 album by Orbital
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work (album), a 2010 album by Shout Out Louds
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" "Bitch" (Britney Spears song) (2013)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (ASAP Ferg song) (2012)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (Iggy Azalea song) (2013)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (Ciara song) (2009)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (Jars of Clay song) (2006)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (Jimmy Eat World song) (2004)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (Rihanna song) (2016)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (Kelly Rowland song) (2008)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (The Saturdays song) (2008)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (The 2 Bears song) (2012)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work", a 1980 song by Bob Marley and the Wailers from Uprising
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work", a 2006 song by Mac Boney from Grand Hustle Presents: In da Streetz Volume 4
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work", a 1998 song by Gang Starr from Moment of Truth
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work", a 2018 song by ionnalee from Everyone Afraid to Be Forgotten
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work", a 2013 single by Jme
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work", a 2018 song by Little Big Town from Wanderlust
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work", a 1990 song by Lou Reed and John Cale from Songs for Drella
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work", a 1956 song by Thelonious Monk and Sonny Rollins from Thelonious Monk and Sonny Rollins
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work", a 2017 song by Charlotte Day Wilson
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work", a 2024 song by Ateez from Golden Hour: Part 1
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work (ﬁlm), a 1915 silent ﬁlm starring Charlie Chaplin
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work (painting), by Ford Madox Brown
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work (professional wrestling), a term with several meanings
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work (vehicle), an electric vehicle by StreetScooter
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (The Armando Iannucci Shows), a television episode
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ "Work" (Bluey), a television episode
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work: A Story of Experience, an 1873 novel by Louisa May Alcott
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Good works or works, a person's actions or deeds in contrast to inner qualities
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Slack Technologies's NYSE symbol
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work, a 1978 play by Ron Milner
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Delta Work (born 1976), Mexican-American drag queen
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Jimmy Work (1924–2018), American singer-songwriter
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ John Work (disambiguation), listing several people with that name
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Milton Work (1864–1934), American authority on bridge and whist
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ All pages with titles containing Work
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ All pages with titles beginning with Work
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Working (disambiguation)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Works (disambiguation)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ The Works (disambiguation)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work of art (disambiguation)
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Work Work (disambiguation)
Work - Wikipedia — Other uses
Work - Wikipedia — People with the surname
Work - Wikipedia — ▪ Labour (disambiguation)
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — An aircraft worker in Texas during
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — World War II, 1942.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Work (human activity)
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Work, labor (labour in Commonwealth English), or an occupation or job is the intentional activity people perform to
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — support the needs and desires of themselves, other people, or organizations.[1] In the context of economics, work can be seen
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — as the human activity that contributes (along with other factors of production) towards the goods and services within an
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — economy.[2]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Work has existed in all human societies, either as paid or unpaid work, from gathering natural resources by hand in hunter-
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — gatherer groups to operating complex technologies that substitute for physical or even mental eﬀort within an agricultural,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — industrial, or post-industrial society. All but the simplest tasks in any work require speciﬁc skills, tools, and other resources,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — such as material for manufacturing goods. Humanity has developed a variety of institutions for group coordination of work,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — such as government programs, nonproﬁt organizations, cooperatives, and corporations.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Cultures and individuals across history have expressed a wide range of aitudes towards work. Besides objective diﬀerences,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — one culture may organize or aach social status to work roles through formalized professions which may carry specialized
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — job titles and provide people with a career. roughout history, work has been intimately connected with other aspects of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — society and politics, such as power, class, tradition, rights, and privileges. Accordingly, the division of labour is a prominent topic across the social sciences as both an
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — abstract concept and a characteristic of individual cultures.[3] Work may also present a threat to individual human happiness and survival, either through dirty,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — dangerous, and demeaning occupations or in extreme cases, from death by overwork.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Some people have also engaged in critique of work and expressed a wish to reduce or abolish it entirely, for example in Paul Lafargue in his book e Right to Be Lazy,[4]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — David Graeber's Bullshit Jobs, or e Abolition of Work by Bob Black. Real world programs to eliminate the economic necessity for lifelong work ﬁrst emerged through
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — the concept of retirement, and have more recently been extended to all adults through experimentation with universal basic income.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Work can take many diﬀerent forms, as varied as the environments, tools, skills, goals, and institutions around a worker. is term refers to the general activity of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — performing tasks, whether they are paid or unpaid, formal or informal. Work encompasses all types of productive activities, including employment, household chores,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — volunteering, and creative pursuits. It is a broad term that encompasses any eﬀort or activity directed towards achieving a particular goal.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Because sustained eﬀort is a necessary part of many human activities, what qualiﬁes as work is oen a maer of context. Specialization is one common feature that
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — distinguishes work from other activities. For example, a sport is a job for a professional athlete who earns their livelihood from it, but a hobby for someone playing for
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — fun in their community. An element of advance planning or expectation is also common, such as when a paramedic provides medical care while on duty and fully
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — equipped rather than performing ﬁrst aid oﬀ-duty as a bystander in an emergency. Self-care and basic habits like personal grooming are also not typically considered
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Description
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — A cordwainer making shoes, Capri,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Italy
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Bal maidens with traditional tools and
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — protective clothing spalling ore, 1858
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — work.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — While a later gi, trade, or payment may retroactively aﬃrm an activity as productive, this can exclude work like
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — volunteering or activities within a family seing, like parenting or housekeeping. In some cases, the distinction between
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — work and other activities is simply a maer of common sense within a community. However, an alternative view is that
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — labeling any activity as work is somewhat subjective, as Mark Twain expressed in the "whitewashed fence" scene of e
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Adventures of Tom Sawyer.[5]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Humans have varied their work habits and aitudes over time. As humans are diurnal, they work mainly during the day,[6]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — but some occupations require night shi work. Hunter-gatherer societies vary their "work" intensity according to the
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — seasonal availability of plants and the periodic migration of prey animals. e development of agriculture led to more
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — sustained work practices, but work still changed with the seasons, with intense sustained eﬀort during harvests (for example)
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — alternating with less focused periods such as winters. In the early modern era, Protestantism and proto-capitalism
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — emphasized the moral and personal advantages of hard work.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — e periodic re-invention of slavery encouraged more consistent work activity in the working class, and capitalist
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — industrialization intensiﬁed demands on workers to keep up with the pace of machines. Restrictions on the hours of work
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — and the ages of workers followed, with worker demands for time oﬀ increasing, but modern oﬃce work retains traces of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — expectations of sustained, concentrated work, even in aﬄuent societies.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Forms of work take on changes over time in response to technological and societal changes.[7] According to a 2024 study, the
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — majority of current employment in the United States was in occupations that had been introduced since 1940.[7]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ere are several ways to categorize and compare diﬀerent kinds of work. In economics, one popular approach is the three-sector model or variations of it. In this view,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — an economy can be separated into three broad categories:
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Primary sector, which extracts food, raw materials, and other resources from the environment
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Secondary sector, which manufactures physical products, reﬁnes materials, and provides utilities
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Tertiary sector, which provides services and helps administer the economy
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — In complex economies with high specialization, these categories are further subdivided into industries that produce a focused subset of products or services. Some
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — economists also propose additional sectors such as a "knowledge-based" quaternary sector, but this division is neither standardized nor universally accepted.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — History
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Kinds of work
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Engineer Mary Jackson working at
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — NASA Langley, 1980.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Another common way of contrasting work roles is ranking them according to a criterion, such as the amount of skill,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — experience, or seniority associated with a role. e progression from apprentice through journeyman to master crasman in
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — the skilled trades is one example with a long history and analogs in many cultures.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Societies also commonly rank diﬀerent work roles by perceived status, but this is more subjective and goes beyond clear
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — progressions within a single industry. Some industries may be seen as more prestigious than others overall, even if they
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — include roles with similar functions. At the same time, a wide swathe of roles across all industries may be aﬀorded more
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — status (e.g. managerial roles) or less (like manual labor) based on characteristics such as a job being low-paid or dirty,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — dangerous and demeaning.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Other social dynamics, like how labor is compensated, can even exclude meaningful tasks from a society's conception of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — work. For example, in modern market-economies where wage labor or piece work predominates, unpaid work may be
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — omied from economic analysis or even cultural ideas of what qualiﬁes as work.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — At a political level, diﬀerent roles can fall under separate institutions where workers have qualitatively diﬀerent power or
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — rights. In the extreme, the least powerful members of society may be stigmatized (as in untouchability) or even violently forced (via slavery) into performing the least
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — desirable work. Complementary to this, elites may have exclusive access to the most prestigious work, largely symbolic sinecures, or even a "life of leisure".
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Unusual Occupations
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — In the diverse world of work, there exist some truly bizarre and unusual occupations that oen defy conventional expectations. ese unique jobs showcase the
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — creativity and adaptability of humans in their pursuit of livelihood.[8]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Individual workers require suﬃcient health and resources to succeed in their tasks.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — As living beings, humans require a baseline of good health, nutrition, rest, and other physical needs in order to reliably exert themselves. is is particularly true of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — physical labor that places direct demands on the body, but even largely mental work can cause stress from problems like long hours, excessive demands, or a hostile
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — workplace.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Particularly intense forms of manual labor oen lead workers to develop physical strength necessary for their job. However, this activity does not necessarily improve a
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — worker's overall physical ﬁtness like exercise, due to problems like overwork or a small set of repetitive motions.[9] In these physical jobs, maintaining good posture or
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — movements with proper technique is also a crucial skill for avoiding injury. Ironically, white-collar workers who are sedentary throughout the workday may also suﬀer
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — from long-term health issues due to a lack of physical activity.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Workers
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Physiology
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — A carpenter at work in 1942.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — A potter shapes pottery with his hands
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — while operating a potter's wheel.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Learning the necessary skills for work is oen a complex process in its own right, requiring intentional training. In traditional
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — societies, know-how for diﬀerent tasks can be passed to each new generation through oral tradition and working under adult
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — guidance. For work that is more specialized and technically complex, however, a more formal system of education is usually necessary.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — A complete curriculum ensures that a worker in training has some exposure to all major aspects of their specialty, in both theory and
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — practice.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Tool use has been a central aspect of human evolution and is also an essential feature of work. Even in technologically advanced
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — societies, many workers' toolsets still include a number of smaller hand-tools, designed to be held and operated by a single person,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — oen without supplementary power. is is especially true when tasks can be handled by one or a few workers, do not require
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — signiﬁcant physical power, and are somewhat self-paced, like in many services or handicra manufacturing.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — For other tasks needing large amounts of power, such as in the construction industry, or involving a highly-repetitive set of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — simple actions, like in mass manufacturing, complex machines can carry out much of the eﬀort. e workers present will
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — focus on more complex tasks, operating controls, or performing maintenance. Over several millennia, invention, scientiﬁc
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — discovery, and engineering principles have allowed humans to proceed from creating simple machines that merely redirect or
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — amplify force, through engines for harnessing supplementary power sources, to today's complex, regulated systems that
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — automate many steps within a work process.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — In the 20th century, the development of electronics and new mathematical insights led to the creation and widespread
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — adoption of fast, general-purpose computers. Just as mechanization can substitute for the physical labor of many human
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — beings, computers allow for the partial automation of mental work previously carried out by human workers, such as
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — calculations, document transcription, and basic customer service requests. Research and development of related technologies
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — like machine learning and robotics continues into the 21st century.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Beyond tools and machines used to actively perform tasks, workers beneﬁt when other passive elements of their work and
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — environment are designed properly. is includes everything from personal items like workwear and safety gear to features
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — of the workspace itself like furniture, lighting, air quality, and even the underlying architecture.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Even if workers are personally ready to perform their jobs, coordination is required for any eﬀort outside of individual subsistence to succeed. At the level of a small
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Training
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Equipment and technology
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — In society
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Organizations
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — A person working using a laptop
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Human-hours worked per week in the US
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — (2006–2023)
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — team working on a single task, only cooperation and good communication may be necessary. As the complexity of a work
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — process increases though, requiring more planning or more workers focused on speciﬁc tasks, a reliable organization
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — becomes more critical.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Economic organizations oen reﬂect social thought common to their time and place, such as ideas about human nature or
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — hierarchy. ese unique organizations can also be historically signiﬁcant, even forming major pillars of an economic system.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — In European history, for instance, the decline of guilds and rise of joint-stock companies goes hand-in-hand with other
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — changes, like the growth of centralized states and capitalism.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — In industrialized economies, labor unions are another signiﬁcant organization. In isolation, a worker that is easily replaceable
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — in the labor market has lile power to demand beer wages or conditions. By banding together and interacting with business
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — owners as a corporate entity, the same workers can claim a larger share of the value created by their labor. While a union
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — does require workers to sacriﬁce some autonomy in relation to their coworkers, it can grant workers more control over the
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — work process itself in addition to material beneﬁts.[10]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — e need for planning and coordination extends beyond individual organizations to society as a whole too. Every successful
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — work project requires eﬀective resource allocation to provide necessities, materials, and investment (such as equipment and
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — facilities). In smaller, traditional societies, these aspects can be mostly regulated through custom, though as societies grow,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — more extensive methods become necessary.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ese complex institutions, however, still have roots in common human activities. Even the free markets of modern capitalist societies rely fundamentally on trade,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — while command economies, such as in many communist states during the 20th century, rely on a highly bureaucratic and hierarchical form of redistribution.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Other institutions can aﬀect workers even more directly by delimiting practical day-to-day life or basic legal rights. For example, a caste system may restrict families to
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — a narrow range of jobs, inherited from parent to child. In serfdom, a peasant has more rights than a slave but is aached to a speciﬁc piece of land and largely under the
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — power of the landholder, even requiring permission to physically travel outside the land-holding. How institutions play out in individual workers' lives can be complex
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — too; in most societies where wage-labor predominates, workers possess equal rights by law and mobility in theory. Without social support or other resources, however,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — the necessity of earning a livelihood may force a worker to cede some rights and freedoms in fact.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Societies and subcultures may value work in general, or speciﬁc kinds of it, diﬀerently. When social status or virtue is strongly associated with leisure, then work can
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — become indicative of low social rank and have a lower value. Conversely, a society may hold strongly to a work ethic where work is seen as virtuous. German
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — sociologist Max Weber hypothesized that European capitalism originated in a Protestant work ethic, which emerged with the Reformation.[11] Some Christian
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — theologians appeal to the Old Testament's Book of Genesis in regards to work. According to Genesis 1, humans were created in the image of God, and in Genesis 2,
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Adam was placed in the Garden of Eden to "work it and keep it".[12] Dorothy L. Sayers has argued that "work is the natural exercise and function of man – the creature
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Institutions
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Values
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — who is made in the image of his Creator."[13] Similarly, John Paul II said in Laborem exercens that by his work, man shares in the image of his creator.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Christian theologians see the fall of man as profoundly aﬀecting human work. In Genesis 3:17, God said to Adam, "cursed is the ground because of you; in pain you shall
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — eat of it all the days of your life".[14] Leland Ryken said that, because of the fall, "many of the tasks we perform in a fallen world are inherently distasteful and
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — wearisome."[15] Christian theologians interpret that through the fall, work has become toil, but John Paul II says work is good for man in spite of this toil, and that
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — "perhaps, in a sense, because of it", because work is something that corresponds to man's dignity and through it, he achieves fulﬁlment as a human being.[16] Drawing
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — on Aristotle, Ryken suggests that the moral ideal is the golden mean between the two extremes of being lazy and a workaholic.[17] Some Christian theologians also draw
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — on the doctrine of redemption to discuss the concept of work. Oliver O'Donovan said that although work is a gi of creation, it is "ennobled into mutual service in the
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — fellowship of Christ."[18] Pope Francis is critical of the hope that technological progress might diminish the need for work: "the goal should not be that technological
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — progress increasingly replace human work, for this would be detrimental to humanity",[19] and McKinsey suggests work will change, but not end, as a result of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — automation and the adoption of artiﬁcial intelligence.[20]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — For some, work may hold a spiritual value in addition to secular notions. Especially in some monastic or mystical strands of several religions, simple manual labor may
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — be held in high regard as a way to maintain the body, cultivate self-discipline and humility, and focus the mind.[21]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — e contemporary world economy has brought many changes, overturning some previously widespread labor issues. At the same time, some longstanding issues
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — remain relevant, and other new ones have emerged. One issue that continues despite many improvements is slave labor and human traﬃcking. ough ideas about
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — universal rights and the economic beneﬁts of free labor have signiﬁcantly diminished the prevalence of outright slavery, it continues in lawless areas, or in aenuated
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — forms on the margins of many economies.[22]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Another diﬃculty, which has emerged in most societies as a result of urbanization and industrialization, is unemployment. While the shi from a subsistence economy
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — usually increases the overall productivity of society and lis many out of poverty, it removes a baseline of material security from those who cannot ﬁnd employment or
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — other support. Governments have tried a range of strategies to mitigate the problem, such as improving the eﬃciency of job matching, conditionally providing welfare
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — beneﬁts or unemployment insurance, or even directly overriding the labor market through work-relief programs or a job guarantee. Since a job forms a major part of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — many workers' self-identity, unemployment can have severe psychological and social consequences beyond the ﬁnancial insecurity it causes.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — One more issue, which may not directly interfere with the functioning of an economy but can have signiﬁcant indirect eﬀects, is when governments fail to account for
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — work occurring out-of-view from the public sphere. is may be important, uncompensated work occurring every day in private life; or it may be criminal activity that
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — involves clear but furtive economic exchanges. By ignoring or failing to understand these activities, economic policies can have counter-intuitive eﬀects and cause
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — strains on the community and society.[23]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Due to various reasons such as the cheap labour, the poor economic situation of the deprived classes, the weakness of laws and legal supervision, the migration
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — existence of child labour is very much observed in diﬀerent parts of the world.[24][25]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Current issues
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Child labour
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — According to the World Bank Globally rate of child labour have decreased from 25% to 10% between 60s to the early years of the 21st century. Nevertheless, giving the
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — population of the world also increased the total number of child labourers remains high, with UNICEF and ILO acknowledging an estimated 168 million children aged
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 5–17 worldwide were involved in some sort of child labour in 2013.[26][27][28][29]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Some scholars like Jean-Marie Baland and James A. Robinson suggests any labour by children aged 18 years or less is wrong since this encourages illiteracy, inhumane
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — work and lower investment in human capital. In other words, there are moral and economic reasons that justify a blanket ban on labour from children aged 18 years or
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — less, everywhere in the world.[30][31][32] On the other hand, some scholars like Christiaan Grootaert and Kameel Ahmady believe that child labour is the symptom of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — poverty. If laws ban most lawful work that enables the poor to survive, the informal economy, illicit operations and underground businesses will thrive.[33][34][35][36]
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — A workplace is a location where someone works, for their employer or themselves, a place of employment. Such a place can range from a home oﬃce to a large oﬃce
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — building or factory. For industrialized societies, the workplace is one of the most important social spaces other than the home, constituting "a central concept for several
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — entities: the worker and [their] family, the employing organization, the customers of the organization, and the society as a whole".[37] e development of new
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — communication technologies has led to the development of the virtual workplace and remote work.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — In modern market-economies:
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Job guarantee
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Labour economics
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Trade union
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Volunteering
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Wage slavery
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Workaholic
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Labor issues:
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Annual leave
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Informal economy
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Job strain
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Labor rights
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Leave of absence
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Minimum wage
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Occupational safety and health
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Paid time oﬀ
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Sick leave
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Unemployment
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Unfree labor
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Unpaid work
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Working poor
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Workplace safety standards
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Related concepts:
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Critique of work
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Eﬀects of overtime
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Ergonomics
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Flow (psychology)
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Workplace
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Helping behavior
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Occupational burnout
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Occupational stress
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Post-work society
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Problem solving
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ▪ Refusal of work
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 1. "Work" (https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/work).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary. Merriam-Webster. 12 July 2020.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Retrieved 19 July 2020.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 2. "Labor" (https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/labor).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 3. Johnson, Paul M (2005). "Division of labor" (http://webhome.aubur
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — n.edu/~johnspm/gloss/division_of_labor.phtml). A Glossary of Political
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Economy Terms. Auburn University, Dept. of Political Science.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 4. "Work Deﬁnition" (https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/deﬁn
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ition/english/work_1?q=Work). Oxford English Dictionary. Retrieved
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 23 November 2021.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 5. "work | Deﬁnition, History, & Examples" (https://www.britannica.co
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — m/topic/work-economics). Britannica. Retrieved 2022-07-06.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 6. Blume, C; Garbazza, C; Spitschan, M (September 2019). "Eﬀects of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — light on human circadian rhythms, sleep and mood" (https://www.nc
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — bi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6751071). Somnologie. 23 (3): 147–
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 156. doi:10.1007/s11818-019-00215-x (https://doi.org/10.1007%2Fs1
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 1818-019-00215-x). PMC 6751071 (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pm
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — c/articles/PMC6751071). PMID 31534436 (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.n
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ih.gov/31534436).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 7. Autor, David; Chin, Caroline; Salomons, Anna; Seegmiller, Bryan
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — (2024). "New Frontiers: The Origins and Content of New Work, 1940–
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 2018*" (https://academic.oup.com/qje/article-abstract/139/3/1399/7
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 630187?redirectedFrom=fulltext). The Quarterly Journal of Economics.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 139 (3): 1399–1465. doi:10.1093/qje/qjae008 (https://doi.org/10.109
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 3%2Fqje%2Fqjae008). ISSN 0033-5533 (https://search.worldcat.org/is
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — sn/0033-5533).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 8. "Unusual and Bizarre jobs around the world" (https://blogristan.co
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — m/10-bizarre-jobs-you-wont-believe-exist/). Blogristan. 20 September
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 2023.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 9. Holtermann A; Hansen JV; Burr H; Søgaard K; Sjøgaard G (1 April
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 2011). "The health paradox of occupational and leisure-time physical
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — activity". British Journal of Sports Medicine. 46 (4): 291–295.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — CiteSeerX 10.1.1.911.2739 (https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/sum
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — mary?doi=10.1.1.911.2739). doi:10.1136/bjsm.2010.079582 (https://d
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — oi.org/10.1136%2Fbjsm.2010.079582). PMID 21459873 (https://pubm
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21459873). S2CID 46227429 (https://api.semanti
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — cscholar.org/CorpusID:46227429).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 10. "How today's unions help working people: Giving workers the power
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — to improve their jobs and unrig the economy" (https://www.epi.org/p
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ublication/how-todays-unions-help-working-people-giving-workers-t
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — he-power-to-improve-their-jobs-and-unrig-the-economy/). Economic
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Policy Institute. Retrieved 2022-07-06.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 11. "Protestant ethic | Deﬁnition & Facts" (https://www.britannica.com/t
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — opic/Protestant-ethic). Britannica. Retrieved 2022-07-06.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 12. 2:15, English Standard Version
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — References
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 13. Sayers, Dorothy L. "Why Work?" (https://web.archive.org/web/20120
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 118052108/http://www.faith-at-work.net/Docs/WhyWork.pdf) (PDF).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — faith-at-work.net. Archived from the original (http://www.faith-at-wor
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — k.net/Docs/WhyWork.pdf) (PDF) on Jan 18, 2012. Retrieved 29 July
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 2012.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 14. English Standard Version
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 15. Leland Ryken, Work and Leisure in Christian Perspective (Portland:
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Multnomah, 1987), 120.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 16. John Paul II, Laborem exercens, § 9.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 17. Ryken, Work and Leisure, 176.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 18. Oliver O'Donovan, "Christian Moral Reasoning," in David J. Atkinson
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — and David H. Field (eds), New Dictionary of Christian Ethics and
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Pastoral Theology (Leicester: IVP, 1995), 123.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 19. Laudato si' (https://www.vatican.va/content/dam/francesco/pdf/ency
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — clicals/documents/papa-francesco_20150524_enciclica-laudato-si_e
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — n.pdf)
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 20. "AI, Automation and the Future of Work: Ten Things to Solve For" (htt
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ps://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/mckinsey/featured%20insights/fut
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ure%20of%20organizations/ai%20automation%20and%20the%20fut
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ure%20of%20work%20ten%20things%20to%20solve%20for/mgi-brie
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ﬁng-note-ai-automation-and-the-future-of-work_june2018.pdf) (PDF).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 21. "The Project Gutenberg eBook of St. Benedict's Rule for
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Monasteries" (https://gutenberg.org/ﬁles/50040/50040-h/50040-h.ht
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — m#chapter-48-nl-on-the-daily-manual-labor). gutenberg.org.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Retrieved 2021-04-19.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 22. "Unemployment and mental health - The Health Foundation" (http
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — s://www.health.org.uk/publications/long-reads/unemployment-and-
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — mental-health). www.health.org.uk. 16 April 2021. Retrieved
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 2022-07-06.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 23. Read "International Conﬂict Resolution After the Cold War" at NAP.edu (h
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ttps://www.nap.edu/read/9897/chapter/12). 2000. doi:10.17226/9897
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — (https://doi.org/10.17226%2F9897). ISBN 978-0-309-07027-0.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 24. Ortiz-Ospina, Esteban; Roser, Max (2024-03-18). "Child Labor" (http
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — s://ourworldindata.org/child-labor). Our World in Data.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 25. "The reason for the prevalence of child labour around the world" (htt
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ps://www.unicef.org/protection/child-labour).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 26. "Child Labour | International Labour Organization" (https://www.il
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — o.org/projects-and-partnerships/projects/child-labour). www.ilo.org.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 2024-01-28. Retrieved 2024-06-12.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 27. Nations, United. "World Day Against Child Labour" (https://www.un.o
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — rg/en/observances/world-day-against-child-labour). United Nations.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Retrieved 2024-06-12.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 28. "More than 1 in 5 children are engaged in child labor in the world's
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — poorest countries" (https://www.aa.com.tr/en/world/more-than-1-i
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — n-5-children-are-engaged-in-child-labor-in-the-worlds-poorest-count
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — ries/2919826). www.aa.com.tr. Retrieved 2024-06-12.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 29. "World Bank Open Data" (https://data.worldbank.org/). World Bank
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Open Data. Retrieved 2024-06-12.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 30. Pouliot, William (2006). "Introducing uncertainty into Baland and
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Robinson's model of child labour" (https://ideas.repec.org//a/eee/de
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — veco/v79y2006i1p264-272.html). Journal of Development Economics.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 79 (1): 264–272. doi:10.1016/j.jdeveco.2004.12.001 (https://doi.org/1
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 0.1016%2Fj.jdeveco.2004.12.001).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 31. "The Economics of Child Labour: An Annotated Bibliography" (http://
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — www.yorku.ca/rajagopa/documents/chiLab-bib-edmunds.pdf) (PDF).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Journal of Political Economy.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 32. "Child labour in Asia and Africa" (https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 223/pf0000146764). unesdoc.unesco.org. Retrieved 2024-06-12.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 33. Christiaan Grootaert; Harry Anthony Patrinos (1999). The Policy Analysis
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — of Child Labour: A Comparative Study. Palgrave Macmillan. pp. 8–54.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 34. "The policy analysis of child labor : a comparative study / edited by
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Christiaan Grootaert and Harry... - Catalogue | National Library of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Australia" (https://nla.gov.au/nla.cat-vn2959279). nla.gov.au.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 35. Ahmady, Kameel (2023). "Traces of childhood exploitation: A
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — comprehensive study on the forms of child labour in Iran" (https://ja
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — per.in/article/traces-of-childhood-exploitation-a-comprehensive-stud
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — y-on-the-forms-of-child-labour-in-iran-ck8uxwz4tfv8wjj). Journal of
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — Advanced Pharmacy Education and Research. 13 (4–2023): 57–64.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — doi:10.51847/blnsUHGGhq (https://doi.org/10.51847%2FblnsUHGGh
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — q). ISSN 2249-3379 (https://search.worldcat.org/issn/2249-3379).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 36. اﺣﻤﺪی, ﮐﺎﻣﯿﻞ )2023(. "Traces of Exploitation in Childhood: A Research
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — on Forms, Causes and Consequences of Child Labor" (https://rjsw.at
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — u.ac.ir/article_15575.html?lang=en). Journal of Social Work Research.
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — doi:10.22054/rjsw.2023.66625.570 (https://doi.org/10.22054%2Frjs
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — w.2023.66625.570).
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — 37. Paul Jackson, Reima Suomi, e-Business and Workplace Redesign (2004),
Work (human activity) - Wikipedia — p. 37.
Manual labour - Wikipedia — Detail from Labor by Charles
Manual labour - Wikipedia — Sprague Pearce (1896)
Manual labour - Wikipedia — Manual labour
Manual labour - Wikipedia — Manual labour (in Commonwealth English, manual labor in American English) or manual work is physical work done by
Manual labour - Wikipedia — humans, in contrast to labour by machines and working animals. It is most literally work done with the hands (the word manual
Manual labour - Wikipedia — coming from the Latin word for hand) and, by ﬁgurative extension, it is work done with any of the muscles and bones of the
Manual labour - Wikipedia — human body. For most of human prehistory and history, manual labour and its close cousin, animal labour, have been the primary
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ways that physical work has been accomplished. Mechanisation and automation, which reduce the need for human and animal
Manual labour - Wikipedia — labour in production, have existed for centuries, but it was only starting in the 18th and 19th centuries that they began to
Manual labour - Wikipedia — signiﬁcantly expand and to change human culture. To be implemented, they require that suﬃcient technology exist and that its
Manual labour - Wikipedia — capital costs be justiﬁed by the amount of future wages that they will obviate. Semi-automation is an alternative to worker
Manual labour - Wikipedia — displacement that combines human labour, automation, and computerisation to leverage the advantages of both man and
Manual labour - Wikipedia — machine.
Manual labour - Wikipedia — Although nearly any work can potentially have skill and intelligence applied to it, many jobs that mostly comprise manual labour—such as fruit and vegetable picking,
Manual labour - Wikipedia — manual materials handling (for example, shelf stocking), manual digging, or manual assembly of parts—oen may be done successfully (if not masterfully) by unskilled
Manual labour - Wikipedia — or semiskilled workers. For these reasons, there is a partial but signiﬁcant correlation between manual labour and unskilled or semiskilled workers. Based on economic
Manual labour - Wikipedia — and social conﬂict of interest, people may oen distort that partial correlation into an exaggeration that equates manual labour with lack of skill; with lack of any
Manual labour - Wikipedia — potential to apply skill (to a task) or to develop skill (in a worker); and with low social class. roughout human existence the laer has involved a spectrum of variants,
Manual labour - Wikipedia — from slavery (with stigmatisation of the slaves as 'subhuman'), to caste or caste-like systems, to subtler forms of inequality.
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ere are diverse viewpoints regarding the deﬁnition of manual labor, and the progression from manual labor to more complex forms can be ambiguous. Authors such
Manual labour - Wikipedia — as Marx characterize it as simple labor, controversially proposing that all labor can be categorized as such. However, Ludwig von Mises argues that this is an
Manual labour - Wikipedia — oversimpliﬁcation, highlighting it as a reason many socialist economic policies face challenges, particularly concerning the economic calculation problem. On the other
Manual labour - Wikipedia — hand, Paul Cocksho and Allin Corell advocate for considering all labor as simple labor, emphasizing the importance of accounting for training in more complex forms
Manual labour - Wikipedia — of labor. is complexity extends to determining what constitutes unskilled labor, as it raises questions about the nature of labor performed by students when training
Manual labour - Wikipedia — for speciﬁc professions. Ultimately, deﬁnitions of manual labor are shaped by economic and political interests, as all societies depend on some form of manual labor for
Manual labour - Wikipedia — their functioning.
Manual labour - Wikipedia — Economic competition oen results in businesses trying to buy labour at the lowest possible cost (for example, through oﬀshoring or by employing foreign workers) or
Manual labour - Wikipedia — to obviate it entirely (through mechanisation and automation).
Manual labour - Wikipedia — Relationship between low skill and low social class
Manual labour - Wikipedia — Peasants harvesting crops, by Flemish
Manual labour - Wikipedia — artist Pieter Brueghel, 17th century
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ere is a strong correlation between manual labour and unskilled or semiskilled workers, despite the fact that nearly any work can potentially have skill and
Manual labour - Wikipedia — intelligence applied to it (for example, the artisanal skill of cra production, or the logic of applied science). It has always been the case for humans that many workers
Manual labour - Wikipedia — begin their working lives lacking any special level of skill or experience. (In the past two centuries, education has become more important and more widely
Manual labour - Wikipedia — disseminated; but even today, not everyone can know everything, or have experience in a great number of occupations.) It has also always been the case that there was
Manual labour - Wikipedia — a large amount of manual labour to be done; and that much of it was simple enough to be successfully (if not masterfully) done by unskilled or semiskilled workers,
Manual labour - Wikipedia — which has meant that there have always been plenty of people with the potential to do it. ese conditions have assured the correlation's strength and persistence.
Manual labour - Wikipedia — roughout human prehistory and history, wherever social class systems have developed, the social status of manual
Manual labour - Wikipedia — labourers has, more oen than not, been low, as most physical tasks were done by peasants, serfs, slaves, indentured
Manual labour - Wikipedia — servants, wage slaves, or domestic servants. For example, legal scholar L. Ali Khan analyses how the Greeks, Hindus, English,
Manual labour - Wikipedia — and Americans all created sophisticated social structures to outsource manual labour to distinct classes, castes, ethnicities, or
Manual labour - Wikipedia — races.[1]
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Construction worker
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Critique of work
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Day labor
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Elbow grease
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Industrialisation
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Manual labor college
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Proletariat
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Refusal of work
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Roughneck
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Shadow work
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ The Idler (1993)
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ The South African Wine Initiative
Manual labour - Wikipedia — 1. Khan 2006.
Manual labour - Wikipedia — References
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Ford, Henry; Crowther, Samuel (1922), My Life and Work (https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/7213/pg7213.html), Garden City, New York,
Manual labour - Wikipedia — USA: Garden City Publishing Company, Inc. Various republications, including ISBN 9781406500189. Original is public domain in U.S. Also
Manual labour - Wikipedia — available at Google Books (https://books.google.com/books?id=4K82efXzn10C&pg=PP13#v=onepage&f=false).
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Khan, Ali (2006-10-12) [2001], "The dignity of manual labor", Columbia Human Rights Law Review, Social Science Research Network, SSRN 936890
Manual labour - Wikipedia — (https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=936890).
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Taylor, Frederick Winslow (1911), The Principles of Scientiﬁc Management (https://books.google.com/books?id=HoJMAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA3), New
Manual labour - Wikipedia — York, NY, USA and London, UK: Harper & Brothers, LCCN 11010339 (https://lccn.loc.gov/11010339), OCLC 233134 (https://search.worldcat.org/o
Manual labour - Wikipedia — clc/233134)Also available from Project Gutenberg (https://gutenberg.org/ebooks/6435). {{citation}}: External link in |postscript= (help)
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Marx, Capital: A Critique of Political Economy, Volume 1, Penguin Group, p. 1152, ISBN 0140445684
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Cockshott, Towards a New Socialism, Bertrand Russell Press, p. 209, ISBN 0851245455
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Mises (2009), Socialism, Liberty Fund, p. 569, ISBN 978-1933550510
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ Musculoskeletal Disorders (http://osha.europa.eu/topics/msds)
Manual labour - Wikipedia — ▪ LaborFair Resources (http://laborfair.com/resources.php) (Fair Labor Practices)
Manual labour - Wikipedia — Bibliography
Manual labour - Wikipedia — External links
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Good Housekeeping is one of several
Homemaking - Wikipedia — magazines related to homemaking.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Homemaking
Homemaking - Wikipedia — (Redirected from House work)
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Homemaking is mainly an American and Canadian term for the management of a home, otherwise known as housework,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — housekeeping, housewifery or household management. It is the act of overseeing the organizational, day-to-day
Homemaking - Wikipedia — operations of a house or estate, and the managing of other domestic concerns. A person in charge of the homemaking, who is
Homemaking - Wikipedia — not employed outside the home, in the US and Canada, is called a homemaker, a term for a housewife or a stay-at-home
Homemaking - Wikipedia — dad. Historically, the role of homemaker was oen assumed by women. e term "homemaker", however, may also refer to a
Homemaking - Wikipedia — social worker who manages a household during the incapacity of the housewife or househusband.[1] Home health workers
Homemaking - Wikipedia — assume the role of homemakers when caring for elderly individuals. is includes preparing meals, giving baths, and any
Homemaking - Wikipedia — duties the person in need cannot perform for themselves.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Homemaking can be the full-time responsibility of one spouse, partner, or parent, shared with children or extended family, or
Homemaking - Wikipedia — shared or traded between spouses/partners as one or both work outside the home. It can also be outsourced partially or
Homemaking - Wikipedia — completely to paid help. In previous decades, there were a number of mandatory courses available for students to learn the
Homemaking - Wikipedia — skills of homemaking. In high school, courses included cooking, nutrition, home economics, family and consumer science
Homemaking - Wikipedia — (FACS), and food and cooking hygiene.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — In North America, early 19th-century ideals required homemaking be the responsibility of the woman; "the wife is properly
Homemaking - Wikipedia — supposed to be the light and centre of the home."[2] Traditional wives who stayed home and did not work for pay were required by social ideals to create and maintain a
Homemaking - Wikipedia — peaceful space to provide to her husband and children. For women in a pre-modern environment, "it is the duty and privilege and solemn responsibility, which make
Homemaking - Wikipedia — this art of home-making more interesting and important to her than any other art in the world."[2] Author of these statements, Annie Swan was not alone in the late
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 1800s viewpoint that women were encouraged, if not required, to maintain the home solely themselves. In 1875, Harper's Bazaar published an article outlining the duties
Homemaking - Wikipedia — of a housewife and the esteemed respect those duties deserve: "but if one only staid to think how countless and how onerous those duties really are, more respect would
Homemaking - Wikipedia — be paid to the faithful eﬀort to perform them, and an added reverence extended to the mother who is also the housekeeper."[3] Harper's Bazaar recognizes that women
Homemaking - Wikipedia — do the majority of the work within the home, pointing out that the work is detailed and at many times, diﬃcult.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Marriage
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 19th century
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 20th century
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Title page of Our Home Cyclopedia:
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Cookery and Housekeeping, published in
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Detroit, Michigan, in 1889
Homemaking - Wikipedia — e 20th century began with similar homemaking roles as the 19th; however, the century concluded with a much dierent
Homemaking - Wikipedia — perception. In the late 1990s, marriage consisted in most cases of both wife and husband participating in homemaking.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Darlene Piña and Vern Bengtson who are anthropologists and professors at the University of Southern California, extensively
Homemaking - Wikipedia — researched marriage dynamics and household labor in the late twentieth century. ey concluded that "all wives beneﬁt
Homemaking - Wikipedia — equally by their husbands' greater involvement in household labor."[4] e division of labor within the home promotes a
Homemaking - Wikipedia — healthy relationship between husband and wife. Concluding, that likelihood of increased happiness within marriage is vastly
Homemaking - Wikipedia — improved when homemaking is shared with the husband. West and Zimmerman, concluded an analysis of over 487 couples
Homemaking - Wikipedia — and found that "women were rewarded for performing feminine behaviors, such as housework, whereas men receive positive
Homemaking - Wikipedia — reinforcement for engaging in masculine tasks, such as breadwinning."[5]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — In contrast, a study performed by Hochschild in 1989, concluded that even when wives contributed more than 50% of the
Homemaking - Wikipedia — household income they oen still performed more household labor than their husbands. Hochschild's study directly
Homemaking - Wikipedia — debunked the previous theory that women performed housework because they contributed signiﬁcantly less to household
Homemaking - Wikipedia — income. Instead, the results of the study indicated that even in marriage dynamics where women contributed more than half
Homemaking - Wikipedia — of the household income, they still completed the vast majority of homemaking tasks.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Married women who are economically and emotionally dependent on their husbands are less likely to report the division of
Homemaking - Wikipedia — household labor as unfair. is signiﬁcant group of married women felt that household labor reinforced their female gender
Homemaking - Wikipedia — identity and connection to femininity.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Sex and gender continue to shape the division of household responsibilities in the United States in the twenty-ﬁrst century. According to the 2018 American Time Use
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Survey, 84 percent of women and 69 percent of men reported that they spent some time performing household duties, which included "housework, cooking, lawn care,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — or household management." Women reported spending an average of 2.6 hours a day on household activities, and men 2.0 hours. On a surveyed day, 49% percent of
Homemaking - Wikipedia — women and 20% of men reported doing housework.[6]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Men and women's perception of household responsibilities diﬀer. Pew Research Center's 2014 Religious Landscape Study
Homemaking - Wikipedia — found that fathers were more likely than mothers to say that chores were evenly split between both partners (56% vs. 46%).
Homemaking - Wikipedia — When asked, 50% of mothers reported they handled more responsibilities around the house than their partners; only 12% of
Homemaking - Wikipedia — fathers reported they did more household tasks. Despite this diﬀerence in perception, a majority of married U.S. adults (56%)
Homemaking - Wikipedia — said that sharing household chores as "very important" to a successful marriage.[7]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — In a 2008 article, social scientists Susan L. Brown and Sayaka Kawamura reported that the unequal distribution in housework
Homemaking - Wikipedia — was aributed mainly to time availability. ey concluded: "wives typically work fewer hours than their husbands, [so] they
Homemaking - Wikipedia — have more time available to perform household tasks."[5]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 21st century
Homemaking - Wikipedia — A vacuum cleaner
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Housekeeping by the homemaker is the care and control of property, ensuring its maintenance, proper use and appearance. In a
Homemaking - Wikipedia — private home a maid or housekeeper is sometimes employed to do some of the housekeeping. Housework is work done by the act of
Homemaking - Wikipedia — housekeeping. Some housekeeping is housecleaning and some housekeeping is home chores. Home chores are housework that needs
Homemaking - Wikipedia — to be done at regular intervals.[8] Housekeeping includes the budget and control of expenditures, preparing meals and buying food,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — paying the heat bill, and cleaning the house.[9]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Most modern-day houses contain sanitary facilities and a means of preparing food. A kitchen is a room or part of a room used by the
Homemaking - Wikipedia — homemaker for cooking, food preparation and food preservation. In the West, a modern kitchen is typically equipped with a stove, an
Homemaking - Wikipedia — oven, a sink with hot and cold running water, a refrigerator and kitchen cabinets. Many homemakers use a microwave oven, a
Homemaking - Wikipedia — dishwasher and other electric appliances like blender and convection cooker and automatic appliances like rice cookers. e main
Homemaking - Wikipedia — function of a kitchen is cooking or preparing food but it may also be used for dining for a casual meal such as lunch.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Cooking is the process of preparing food, making, selecting, measuring and combining ingredients in an ordered procedure for
Homemaking - Wikipedia — producing safe and edible food. e process encompasses a vast range of methods, tools and combinations of ingredients to alter the
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ﬂavor, appearance, texture, or digestibility of food. Factors aﬀecting the outcome include the variability of ingredients, ambient
Homemaking - Wikipedia — conditions, tools, and the skill of the individual doing the actual cooking.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — e diversity of cooking worldwide is a reﬂection of the aesthetic, agricultural, economic, cultural, social and religious diversity of
Homemaking - Wikipedia — people across the globe. Applying heat to a food usually, though not always, chemically transforms it, thus changing its ﬂavor, texture,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — consistency, appearance, and nutritional properties. Methods of cooking that involve the boiling of liquid in a receptacle have been
Homemaking - Wikipedia — practised at least since the 10th millennium BC, with the introduction of poery.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — House cleaning by the homemaker is the systematic process of making a home neat and clean. is may be applied more broadly than just an individual home, such as a
Homemaking - Wikipedia — metaphor for a similar "clean up" process applied elsewhere such as at a hotel or as a procedural reform. In the process of house cleaning general cleaning activities are
Homemaking - Wikipedia — completed, such as disposing of rubbish, storing of belongings in regular places, cleaning dirty surfaces, dusting and vacuuming. e details of this are various and
Homemaking - Wikipedia — complicated enough that many books have been published on the subject. How-to sites on the internet have many articles on house cleaning. Tools include the vacuum
Homemaking - Wikipedia — cleaner, broom and mop. Supplies such as cleaning solutions and sponges are sold in grocery stores and elsewhere. Professional cleaners can be hired for less frequent or
Homemaking - Wikipedia — specialist tasks such as cleaning blinds, rugs, and sofas. Professional services are also oﬀered for the basic tasks. Safety is a consideration because some cleaning
Homemaking - Wikipedia — products are toxic and some cleaning tasks are physically demanding. Green cleaning refers to cleaning without causing pollution or chemicals that may cause bodily
Homemaking - Wikipedia — harm. e history of house cleaning has links to the advancement of technology.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Housekeeping
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Cooking
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Cleaning
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Girl guides cleaning a room, 1917
Homemaking - Wikipedia — A 1950s washing machine from
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Constructa
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Outdoor housecleaning chores include removing leaves from rain guers, washing windows, sweeping doormats, cleaning
Homemaking - Wikipedia — the pool, puing away lawn furniture, and taking out the trash.[10]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Laundry refers to the act of washing clothing and linens, the place where that
Homemaking - Wikipedia — washing is done, and/or that which needs to be, is being, or has been laundered.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Various chemicals may be used to increase the solvent power of water, such as the
Homemaking - Wikipedia — compounds in soaproot or yucca-root used by Native American tribes. Soap, a
Homemaking - Wikipedia — compound made from lye (from wood-ash) and fat, is an ancient and very
Homemaking - Wikipedia — common laundry aid. Modern washing machines typically use powdered or liquid
Homemaking - Wikipedia — laundry detergent in place of more traditional soap. Once clean, the clothes are
Homemaking - Wikipedia — dried.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Washing machines and dryers are now ﬁxtures in homes around the world. In some parts of the world, including the US,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Canada, and Switzerland, apartment buildings and dormitories oen have laundry rooms, where residents share washing
Homemaking - Wikipedia — machines and dryers. Usually the machines are set to run only when money is put in a coin slot. In other parts of the world,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — apartment buildings with laundry rooms are uncommon, and each apartment may have its own washing machine. ose
Homemaking - Wikipedia — without a machine at home or the use of a laundry room must either wash their clothes by hand or visit a commercial
Homemaking - Wikipedia — laundromat.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — A clothes dryer is a household appliance that is used to remove moisture from a load of clothing and other textiles, generally
Homemaking - Wikipedia — shortly aer they are cleaned in a washing machine. Most dryers consist of a rotating drum called a tumbler through which
Homemaking - Wikipedia — heated air is circulated to evaporate the moisture from the load. e tumbler is rotated relatively slowly in order to maintain
Homemaking - Wikipedia — space between the articles in the load. In most cases, the tumbler is belt-driven by an induction motor. Using these machines
Homemaking - Wikipedia — may cause clothes to shrink, become less so (due to loss of short so ﬁbers/ lint) and fade. For these reasons, as well as environmental concerns, many people use open
Homemaking - Wikipedia — air methods such as a clothes line and clotheshorse.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Laundry starch is used in the laundering of clothes. Starch was widely used in Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries to stiﬀen the wide collars and ruﬀs of ﬁne linen
Homemaking - Wikipedia — which surrounded the necks of the well-to-do. During the 19th century and early 20th century, it was stylish to stiﬀen the collars and sleeves of men's shirts and the
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ruﬄes of girls' peicoats by applying starch to them as the clean clothes were being ironed. Aside from the smooth, crisp edges it gave to clothing, it served practical
Homemaking - Wikipedia — purposes as well. Dirt and sweat from a person's neck and wrists would stick to the starch rather than to the ﬁbers of the clothing, and would easily wash away along
Homemaking - Wikipedia — with the starch. Aer each laundering, the starch would be reapplied. Today the product is sold in aerosol cans for home use. Kitchen starch used as a thickening agent
Homemaking - Wikipedia — for food can also be applied to laundered fabrics (requires boiling).
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Laundry
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Maintenance
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Homemakers that follow predictive maintenance techniques determine the condition of in-service equipment in order to predict when maintenance should be
Homemaking - Wikipedia — performed. is approach oﬀers cost savings over routine or time-based maintenance, because tasks are performed only when warranted. Homemakers that follow
Homemaking - Wikipedia — preventive maintenance methods ensure that household equipment and the house are in satisfactory operating condition by providing for inspection, detection, and
Homemaking - Wikipedia — correction of incipient failures either before they occur or before they develop into major defects.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Home maintenance involves the diagnosis and resolution of problems in a home, and is related to home maintenance to avoid such problems. Many types of
Homemaking - Wikipedia — maintenance are "Do it yourself" (DIY) projects. Maintenance is not necessarily the same as home improvement, although many improvements can result from repairs
Homemaking - Wikipedia — or maintenance. Oen the costs of larger repairs will justify the alternative of investment in full-scale improvements. It may make just as much sense to upgrade a home
Homemaking - Wikipedia — system (with an improved one) as to repair it or incur ever-more-frequent and expensive maintenance for an ineﬃcient, obsolete or dying system. For a DIY project, also
Homemaking - Wikipedia — useful is the established limits on time and money investments before a repair (or list of repairs) become overwhelming and discouraging, and less likely to ever be
Homemaking - Wikipedia — completed.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Homemakers that have a lawn responsibility adhere to seasonal lawn care practices, which vary to some extent depending on the climate zone and type of grass that is
Homemaking - Wikipedia — grown (whether cool season or warm season varieties). Various recognized method used by homemakers in lawn care are observed in any area. In spring or early
Homemaking - Wikipedia — summer, homemakers seed, sod, or sprig a yard when the ground is warmer. In summer lawn mowers are used at high cuing for cool season grass, and lower cuing
Homemaking - Wikipedia — for warm season lawns. In autumn, lawns are mown by homemakers at a lower height and thatch build-up that occurs in warm season grasses are removed.[11]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Homemakers do add sandy loam and apply fertilizer, containing some type of weing agent. Cool season lawns are planted in the autumn with adequate rainfall. Lawn
Homemaking - Wikipedia — care in the winter is minimal, requiring only light feedings of organic material, such as green-waste compost, and minerals to encourage earthworms and beneﬁcial
Homemaking - Wikipedia — microbes.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Household management by the homemaker is the act of overseeing the organizational, ﬁnancial, and day-to-day operations of a house or estate. It diﬀers from
Homemaking - Wikipedia — housekeeping, which consists of the physical maintenance and cleaning of a house.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — House organization[12] or home organization includes interior design to make the home aesthetically pleasing by arranging furniture, plants, blinds, and so forth. De-
Homemaking - Wikipedia — cluering means removing unnecessary things from the house.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Home maintenance
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Lawn maintenance
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Management
Homemaking - Wikipedia — House organization
Homemaking - Wikipedia — De-cluttering
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Household de-cluering involves puing things in their proper place aer they have been used. "Cleaning up your mess" might involve removing glasses, eating
Homemaking - Wikipedia — utensils or gadgets i.e. toys from the living room if you have eaten a meal there in front of the television. If several people have done that over a few days and not
Homemaking - Wikipedia — removed their glasses, dishes and utensils from the living room, the living room is considered to be "cluered" with dishes. e dishes are out of place because they
Homemaking - Wikipedia — belong in the kitchen, washed and put away in the cupboards. at is the most common example of cluer in a modern North American household.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ere is another deﬁnition of cluer, which refers to having simply too many things and not enough room for all of it. Sometimes as happens in Asian households, the
Homemaking - Wikipedia — items are necessary, but the home is simply too small, and ingenious methods are needed to organize everything to minimize unsightly cluer. Removing unneeded or
Homemaking - Wikipedia — no longer necessary objects from a household or home is also an aspect of de-cluering. Objects can be given away to friends or charitable organizations, sold as
Homemaking - Wikipedia — second-hand, recycled or thrown away.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Extreme forms of an inability to de-cluer is a behavioral aspect of compulsive hoarding. On the other end, a society that relies overly much on generating and then
Homemaking - Wikipedia — disposing of waste is referred to as a throw-away society.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Household purchasing refers to a homemaker's eﬀorts to acquire goods or services to accomplish the goals of the household. ough there are several households that
Homemaking - Wikipedia — aempt to set standards in the purchasing process, processes can vary greatly between households. Typically the word "purchasing" is not used interchangeably with
Homemaking - Wikipedia — the word "procurement", since procurement typically includes other concepts. Homemakers decide the market goods that the household will buy, such as the groceries
Homemaking - Wikipedia — which have been bought at a grocer's or supermarket.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Another important purchase handled by homemakers is the power source used for appliances. Home or other building heating may include boilers, furnaces, and water
Homemaking - Wikipedia — heaters. Compressed natural gas is used in rural homes without connections to piped-in public utility services, or with portable grills. However, due to being less
Homemaking - Wikipedia — economical than LPG, LPG (Propane) is the dominant source of rural gas for natural gas-powered ranges and/or ovens, natural gas-heated clothes dryers, heating/
Homemaking - Wikipedia — cooling and central heating. e amount of usages is determined by factors such as natural gas prices.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Homemakers may manage household workers or "domestic workers".
Homemaking - Wikipedia — In sociology, household work strategy is the division of labour between members of a household, whether implicit or the result of explicit decision–making, with the
Homemaking - Wikipedia — alternatives weighed up in a simpliﬁed type of cost-beneﬁt analysis.[13][14] It is a plan for the relative deployment of household members' time between the three
Homemaking - Wikipedia — domains of employment:
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 1. in the market economy, including home-based self-employment second jobs, in order to obtain money to buy goods and services in the market;
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 2. domestic production work, such as cultivating a vegetable patch or raising chickens, purely to supply food to the household; and
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Household purchasing
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Servants
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Work strategies
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 3. domestic consumption work to provide goods and services directly within the household, such as cooking meals, child–care, household repairs,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — or the manufacture of clothes and gifts.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Household work strategies may vary over the life-cycle, as household members age, or with the economic environment; they may be imposed by one person or be
Homemaking - Wikipedia — decided collectively.[15]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — "Household production" is an economic category for activities including homemaking. It is deﬁned as "the production of the goods and services by the members of a
Homemaking - Wikipedia — household, for their own consumption, using their own capital and their own unpaid labor. Goods and services produced by households for their own use include
Homemaking - Wikipedia — accommodation, meals, clean clothes, and child care. e process of household production involves the transformation of purchased intermediate commodities into ﬁnal
Homemaking - Wikipedia — consumption commodities. Households use their own capital and their own labor."[16]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ere are eﬀorts to construct estimates of the value of household production in a way analogous to GDP, though the category is not usually included in GDP.[17] Goods
Homemaking - Wikipedia — and services created by households are generally consumed within the same country, and hence contribute in a "Domestic Consumption" category in national accounts.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — [18]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — e International Wages for Housework Campaign was a global, social movement co-founded in 1972 in Padua, Italy, by author and activist Selma James. e Campaign
Homemaking - Wikipedia — was formed to raise awareness of how housework and childcare are the base of all industrial work and to stake the claim that these unavoidable tasks should be
Homemaking - Wikipedia — compensated as paid, wage labor.[19] e demands for the Wages for Housework formally called for economic compensation for domestic work but also used these
Homemaking - Wikipedia — demands to more generally call aention to the aﬀective labors of women, the reliance of capitalist economies on exploitative labor practices against women, and leisure
Homemaking - Wikipedia — inequality.[20]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Many home appliances have been invented that make housework faster or more eﬀective compared to before the industrial revolution. ese include:
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Washing machine
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Clothes dryer
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Dishwasher
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Sewing machine
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Vacuum cleaner
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Household production
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Wages for housework
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Eﬀects of technology and advertising
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Housing portal
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Small electrics like the electric mixer, blender, toaster, and coﬀee maker
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Microwave oven
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Refrigerator, reducing the number of grocery trips or the amount of food preservation work to do
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Utilities can potentially eliminate work like gathering and chopping ﬁrewood, shovelling coal, fetching water from outdoors, and heating cold tap water.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Historian Ruth Schwartz Cowan estimated that homemakers in the 1800s performed about 50–60 hours of work per week, and that this is the same as the 1990s. She
Homemaking - Wikipedia — says that, rather than reducing the amount of time devoted to housework, labor-saving devices have been used to make the same amount of time do more work, such as
Homemaking - Wikipedia — by vacuuming a rug instead of sweeping it, or washing fabrics more frequently. Modern parents also more frequently transport their children to aer-school activities,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — and doctors no longer make house calls.[21]
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Handyman
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Scientiﬁc management
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 1. "homemaker - deﬁnition of homemaker by The Free Dictionary" (htt
Homemaking - Wikipedia — p://www.thefreedictionary.com/homemaker). Thefreedictionary.com.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Retrieved 2015-07-02.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 2. Swan, Annie S. (2011-04-25). Courtship and Marriage, and the Gentle
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Art of Home-Making (http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/35963?msg=
Homemaking - Wikipedia — welcome_stranger).
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 3. "Home Economics Archive: Research, Tradition, History" (http://heart
Homemaking - Wikipedia — h.library.cornell.edu/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=hearth;idno=4732809_1428
Homemaking - Wikipedia — _052). hearth.library.cornell.edu. Retrieved 2019-04-16.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 4. Piña, Darlene L.; Bengtson, Vern L. (1993). "The Division of
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Household Labor and Wives' Happiness: Ideology, Employment, and
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Perceptions of Support". Journal of Marriage and Family. 55 (4): 901–
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 912. doi:10.2307/352771 (https://doi.org/10.2307%2F352771).
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ISSN 0022-2445 (https://search.worldcat.org/issn/0022-2445).
Homemaking - Wikipedia — JSTOR 352771 (https://www.jstor.org/stable/352771).
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 5. Kawamura, Sayaka; Brown, Susan L. (November 2010). "Mattering
Homemaking - Wikipedia — and wives' perceived fairness of the division of household labor".
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Social Science Research. 39 (6): 976–986. doi:10.1016/
Homemaking - Wikipedia — j.ssresearch.2010.04.004 (https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.ssresearch.20
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 10.04.004).
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 6. "American Time Use Survey Summary" (https://www.bls.gov/news.rel
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ease/atus.nr0.htm). www.bls.gov. Retrieved 2019-07-12.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 7. Geiger, A. W. (30 November 2016). "Sharing chores a key to good
Homemaking - Wikipedia — marriage, say majority of married adults" (https://www.pewresearc
Homemaking - Wikipedia — h.org/fact-tank/2016/11/30/sharing-chores-a-key-to-good-marriage-
Homemaking - Wikipedia — say-majority-of-married-adults/). Pew Research Center. Retrieved
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 12 July 2019.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 8. Gove, Philip et al. 1961. Webster's Third New International Dictionary of
Homemaking - Wikipedia — the English Language Unabridged. Springﬁeld, Massachusetts: G & C
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Merriam Company
Homemaking - Wikipedia — References
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 9. Ansley, Clark et al. 1935. The Columbia Encyclopedia in One Volume.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Morningside Heights, NY: Columbia University Press.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 10. Smallin, Donna. 2006. Cleaning Plain & Simple. Storey Publishing,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — North Adams, MA.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 11. Lawn experts are divided in their opinions on this.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 12. "Home Decor Archives" (https://livingcraze.com/category/home-deco
Homemaking - Wikipedia — r/). LivingCraze. 2025-01-26. Retrieved 2025-01-26.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 13. [1] (http://www.essex.ac.uk/Sociology/people/staﬀ/pahl.shtm)
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20081204011627/http://ww
Homemaking - Wikipedia — w.essex.ac.uk/Sociology/people/staﬀ/pahl.shtm) December 4, 2008,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — at the Wayback Machine
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 14. Divisions of Labour Ray Pahl (1984)
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 15. "Household work strategy" (http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1O8
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 8-householdworkstrategy.html). Encyclopedia.com. Retrieved
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 2015-07-02.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 16. Ironmonger, D. (2000-02-02). "Household Production and the
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Household Economy" (http://ideas.repec.org/p/mlb/wpaper/759.htm
Homemaking - Wikipedia — l). Ideas.repec.org. Retrieved 2015-07-02.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 17. U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis. Why isn't household production
Homemaking - Wikipedia — included in GDP? (https://www.bea.gov/help/faq/1297), bea.gov,
Homemaking - Wikipedia — April 2018
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 18. "Domestic Consumption" (http://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionar
Homemaking - Wikipedia — y/business-english/domestic-consumption).
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Dictionary.cambridge.org. Retrieved 2015-07-02.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 19. James, Selma (2008). "Is Transformation Possible? They Say We Can't.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — We Must". Oﬀ Our Backs. 38 (1). Oﬀ Our Backs. Inc: 42.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — JSTOR 20838923 (https://www.jstor.org/stable/20838923).
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 20. "More Smiles? More Money" (http://nplusonemag.com/more-smiles-
Homemaking - Wikipedia — more-money). nplusonemag.com. 2013-07-25. Retrieved 2015-07-02.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — 21. "No. 1088: Housework" (http://www.uh.edu/engines//epi1088.htm).
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Uh.edu. 2004-08-01. Retrieved 2016-07-07.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Lopata, H. Z. (1994). Circles and settings: Role changes of American women. SUNY series in gender and society. Albany: State University of New
Homemaking - Wikipedia — York Press. "Homemaker (https://books.google.com/books?id=IEJf_oKBmDMC&pg=PA137)" Page 137+.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Arnold, E. (1993). Voices of American homemakers (https://books.google.com/books?id=6ZnrAf_6qnsC). Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Goldstein, Carolyn M. Creating Consumers: Home Economists in Twentieth-Century America (https://books.google.com/books?id=6uIWFfewB3QC)
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Univ of North Carolina Press, 2012. ISBN 9780807872383
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Harvey, L. S. (1920). Food facts for the home-maker (https://archive.org/details/onehundredbestn00grozgoog). Boston: Houghton Miﬄin
Homemaking - Wikipedia — company.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Frederick, C. (1919). Household engineering (https://archive.org/details/householdengineer00fredrich); Scientiﬁc management in the home.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Chicago: American school of home economics.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Snedden, D. (1919). Vocational homemaking education (https://archive.org/details/vocationalhomema01sned): Some problems and proposals.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — New York City: Teachers College, Columbia University.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ Kinne, H., & Cooley, A. M. (1914). Shelter and clothing (https://books.google.com/books?id=oL4ZAAAAYAAJ): A textbook of the household arts.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — New York: Macmillan.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Sources
Homemaking - Wikipedia — ▪ "Friendly Visiting Among the Poor"; by Mary Ellen Richmond. "The Homemaker (https://books.google.com/books?id=RgUdAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA64)",
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Pages 64ﬀ.
Homemaking - Wikipedia — Further reading
Working animal - Wikipedia — A bullock team hauling wool in New South Wales
Working animal - Wikipedia — Traditional farming methods using oxen
Working animal - Wikipedia — Working animal
Working animal - Wikipedia — A working animal is an animal, usually domesticated, that is kept by humans and trained to perform tasks.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Some are used for their physical strength (e.g. oxen and dra horses) or for transportation (e.g. riding horses
Working animal - Wikipedia — and camels), while others are service animals trained to execute certain specialized tasks (e.g. hunting and
Working animal - Wikipedia — guide dogs, messenger pigeons, and ﬁshing cormorants). ey may also be used for milking or herding. Some,
Working animal - Wikipedia — at the end of their working lives, may also be used for meat or leather.
Working animal - Wikipedia — e history of working animals may predate agriculture as dogs were used by hunter-gatherer ancestors;
Working animal - Wikipedia — around the world, millions of animals work in relationship with their owners. Domesticated species are oen
Working animal - Wikipedia — bred for diﬀerent uses and conditions, especially horses and working dogs. Working animals are usually raised
Working animal - Wikipedia — on farms, though some are still captured from the wild, such as dolphins and some Asian elephants.
Working animal - Wikipedia — People have found uses for a wide variety of abilities in animals, and even industrialized societies use many
Working animal - Wikipedia — animals for work. People use the strength of horses, elephants, and oxen to pull carts and move loads. Police
Working animal - Wikipedia — forces use dogs for ﬁnding illegal substances and assisting in apprehending wanted persons, others use dogs to
Working animal - Wikipedia — ﬁnd game or search for missing or trapped people. People use various animals—camels, donkeys, horses, dogs,
Working animal - Wikipedia — etc.—for transport, either for riding or to pull wagons and sleds. Other animals, including dogs and monkeys,
Working animal - Wikipedia — help disabled people.
Working animal - Wikipedia — On rare occasions, wild animals are not only tamed, but trained to perform work—though oen solely for
Working animal - Wikipedia — novelty or entertainment, as such animals tend to lack the trustworthiness and mild temper of true
Working animal - Wikipedia — domesticated working animals. Conversely, not all domesticated animals are working animals. For example,
Working animal - Wikipedia — while cats may catch mice, it is an instinctive behavior, not one that can be trained by human intervention.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Other domesticated animals, such as sheep or rabbits, may have agricultural uses for meat, hides and wool, but
Working animal - Wikipedia — are not suitable for work. Finally, small domestic pets, such as most small birds (other than certain types of
Working animal - Wikipedia — pigeon) are generally incapable of performing work other than providing companionship.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Roles and specializations
Working animal - Wikipedia — Transportation
Working animal - Wikipedia — The horse-drawn winch of a former
Working animal - Wikipedia — limestone quarry (France)
Working animal - Wikipedia — A pack llama
Working animal - Wikipedia — Some animals are used due to sheer physical strength in tasks such as ploughing or logging. Such animals are grouped as a
Working animal - Wikipedia — draught or dra animals. Others may be used as pack animals, for animal-powered transport, the movement of people and
Working animal - Wikipedia — goods. Together, these are sometimes called beasts of burden. Some animals are ridden by people on their backs and are
Working animal - Wikipedia — known as mounts. Alternatively, one or more animals in harness may be used to pull vehicles.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Riding animals are animals that people use as mounts in order to perform tasks such as traversing across long distances or
Working animal - Wikipedia — over rugged terrain, hunting on horseback or with some other riding animal, patrolling around rural and/or wilderness areas,
Working animal - Wikipedia — rounding up and/or herding livestock or even for recreational enjoyment. ey mainly include equines such as horses,
Working animal - Wikipedia — donkeys, and mules; bovines such as cale, water buﬀalo, and yak. In some places, elephants, llamas and camels are also
Working animal - Wikipedia — used. Dromedary camels are in arid areas of Australia, North Africa and the Middle East; the less common Bactrian camel
Working animal - Wikipedia — inhabits central and East Asia; both are used as working animals. On occasion, reindeer, though usually driven, may be ridden.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Certain wild animals have been tamed and used for riding, usually for novelty purposes, including the zebra and the ostrich. Some mythical creatures are believed to act
Working animal - Wikipedia — as divine mounts, such as garuda in Hinduism (See vahana for divine mounts in Hinduism) and the winged horse Pegasus in Greek mythology.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Pack animals may be of the same species as mounts or harness animals, though animals such as horses (especially
Working animal - Wikipedia — packhorses), mules, donkeys, reindeer and both types of camel may have individual bloodlines or breeds that have been
Working animal - Wikipedia — selectively bred for packing. Additional species are only used to carry loads, including llamas in the Andes.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Domesticated cale and yaks are also used as pack animals. Other species used to carry cargo include dogs and pack goats.
Working animal - Wikipedia — An intermediate use is as dra animals, harnessed singly or in teams, to pull sleds, wheeled vehicles or ploughs.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Oxen are slow but strong, and have been used in a yoke since ancient times: the earliest surviving vehicle,
Working animal - Wikipedia — Puabi's Sumerian sledge, was ox-drawn; an acre was originally deﬁned as the area a span of oxen could
Working animal - Wikipedia — plow in a day. The domestic water buﬀalo and carabao, pull wagons and ploughs in Southeast Asia and
Working animal - Wikipedia — the Philippines.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Draught or draft horses are commonly used in harness for heavy work. Several breeds of medium-weight horses are used to pull lighter
Working animal - Wikipedia — wheeled carts, carriages and buggies when a certain amount of speed or style is desirable.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Mules are considered tough and strong, with harness capacity dependent on the type of horse mare used to produce the mule foal. Because
Working animal - Wikipedia — they are a hybrid animal and usually are infertile, separate breeding programs must also be maintained.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Riding animals or mounts
Working animal - Wikipedia — Pack animals
Working animal - Wikipedia — Draft animals
Working animal - Wikipedia — Donkey used to pull a wheeled vehicle
Working animal - Wikipedia — in Morocco
Working animal - Wikipedia — Camel pulling a coach in Rajasthan
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Ponies and donkeys are often used to pull carts and small wagons. Historically, ponies were commonly
Working animal - Wikipedia — used in mining to pull ore carts.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Dogs are used for pulling light carts or, particularly, sleds (e.g. sled dogs such as huskies) for both
Working animal - Wikipedia — recreation and working purposes.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Goats also can perform light harness work in front of carts.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Reindeer are used in the Arctic and sub-Arctic Nordic countries and Siberia. During World War II, the Red
Working animal - Wikipedia — Army deployed deer transportation battalions on the Eastern Front.[1] In the twenty-ﬁrst century, Russian
Working animal - Wikipedia — soldiers continue to train with reindeer sleds in winter.[2] In traditional festive legend, Santa Claus's
Working animal - Wikipedia — reindeer pull a sleigh through the night sky to help Santa Claus deliver gifts to children on Christmas Eve.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Elephants are used for logging in Southeast Asia.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Less often, camels and llamas have been trained to harness. According to Juan Ignacio Molina the Dutch
Working animal - Wikipedia — captain Joris van Spilbergen observed the use of chiliquenes (a llama type) by native Mapuches of Mocha
Working animal - Wikipedia — Island as plough animals in 1614.[3]
Working animal - Wikipedia — Assorted wild animals have, on occasion, been tamed and trained to harness, including zebras and even moose.
Working animal - Wikipedia — As some domesticated animals display extremely protective or territorial behavior, certain breeds and species have been
Working animal - Wikipedia — utilized to guard people and/or property such as homes, public buildings, businesses, crops, livestock and even venues of
Working animal - Wikipedia — criminal activity.[4][5] Guard animals can either act as alarms to alert their owners of danger or they can be used to actively
Working animal - Wikipedia — scare oﬀ and/or even aack encroaching intruders or dangerous animals. Well known examples of guard animals include
Working animal - Wikipedia — dogs, geese and llamas.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Working draught animals may power ﬁxed machinery using a treadmill and have been used throughout history to power a winch to raise water from a well. Turnspit
Working animal - Wikipedia — dogs were formerly used to power roasting jacks for roasting meat.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Working as a form of biological treatment for the environment. Animals such as Asian carps were imported to the U.S. in 1970s to control algae, weed, and parasite
Working animal - Wikipedia — growth in aquatic farms, weeds in canal systems, and as one form of sewage treatment.[6]
Working animal - Wikipedia — Guard animals
Working animal - Wikipedia — Powering ﬁxed machinery
Working animal - Wikipedia — Treatment animals
Working animal - Wikipedia — Pathogens and diseases
Working animal - Wikipedia — An ox-powered Copra press
Working animal - Wikipedia — Animals can be used to detect the presence of pathogens and patients carrying infectious diseases.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Dogs[7][8][9][10] (including scent hounds) and bees[11] have been trained to detect COVID-19 infections.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Dogs have been trained to detect cancer.[12] One study reported ants could be used to detect cancer via urine.[13]
Working animal - Wikipedia — [14]
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Detection rats such as those trained by APOPO can also be taught to identify diseases, especially pulmonary
Working animal - Wikipedia — tuberculosis.[15]
Working animal - Wikipedia — Dogs and pigs, with a beer sense of smell than humans, can assist with gathering by ﬁnding valuable products, such as truﬄes (a
Working animal - Wikipedia — very expensive subterranean fungus). e French typically use truﬄe hogs, while Italians mainly use dogs. Monkeys are trained to
Working animal - Wikipedia — pick coconuts from palm trees, a job many human workers consider as too dangerous.[16]
Working animal - Wikipedia — Detection dogs, commonly employed by law enforcement authorities, are trained to use their senses to detect illegal drugs, explosives,
Working animal - Wikipedia — currency, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones, among other things.[17] e sense most used by detection dogs is smell, hence such dogs are also
Working animal - Wikipedia — commonly known as 'sniﬀer dogs'. For this task, dogs may sometimes be used remotely from the suspect item, for example via the Remote Air Sampling for Canine
Working animal - Wikipedia — Olfaction (RASCO) system.[18]
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ The best-known example is the guide dog or seeing eye dog for blind people. See also service dog. Miniature horses are also occasionally used
Working animal - Wikipedia — for this purpose as well.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Trained dogs and African, Asian, and American monkeys, such as capuchin monkeys have been taught to provide other functions for impaired
Working animal - Wikipedia — people, such as opening mail and minor household tasks of the same like.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ A very close working relationship exists between a stockman or shepherd, a herding dog, and the herd (or mob) of sheep or cattle. Cattle and
Working animal - Wikipedia — sheep herders in other parts of the world also use various dog breeds.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Certain breeds of horses also have an innate "cow sense" that allows them to eﬀectively carry a rider to the right place at the right time to
Working animal - Wikipedia — Searching and retrieving
Working animal - Wikipedia — Detecting contraband
Working animal - Wikipedia — Interfacing and organization
Working animal - Wikipedia — Assistance animals
Working animal - Wikipedia — Herding
Working animal - Wikipedia — A Koolie dog working with
Working animal - Wikipedia — sheep
Working animal - Wikipedia — muster (gather or round up) livestock. See stock horse; cutting horse
Working animal - Wikipedia — e defensive and oﬀensive capabilities of animals (such as fangs and claws) can be used to protect or to aack humans.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ The guard dog barks or attacks, to warn of an intruder, sniﬀer dogs are used to detect explosives contraband and
Working animal - Wikipedia — attack dogs are trained to attack on command.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ War elephants were trained for battle in ancient times and are still used for military transport today.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Military uses of horses have changed over the millennia but still continue, including for police work.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Camel cavalry was used in deserts since they had better performance and survivability in the harsh desert
Working animal - Wikipedia — environment than horses. India's Border Security Force and some other countries still used camel cavalry for
Working animal - Wikipedia — patrolling in the Thar desert.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Dolphins and sea lions carry markers to attach to naval mines as well as patrolling harbors.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Dogs can be trained to ﬁnd landmines.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Rats, which are lighter and less of a risk to set the mines oﬀ, have recently been used more frequently.[15][19]
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Homing pigeons transport material, usually messages on small pieces of paper, by air.
Working animal - Wikipedia — In some jurisdictions, certain working animals are aﬀorded greater legal rights than other animals. One such common example is police dogs and military dogs, which
Working animal - Wikipedia — are oen aﬀorded additional protections and the same memorial services as human oﬃcers and soldiers.
Working animal - Wikipedia — India law have provision for the in loco parentis for implementing animal welfare laws. Under the Indian law the non-human entities such as animals, deities, trusts,
Working animal - Wikipedia — charitable organizations, corporate, managing bodies, etc. and several other non-human entitles have been given the status of the "legal person" with legal rights and
Working animal - Wikipedia — duties, such as to sue and be sued, to own and transfer the property, to pay taxes, etc. In court cases regarding animals, the animals have the status of "legal person" and
Working animal - Wikipedia — humans have the legal duty to act as "loco parentis" towards animals welfare like a parent has towards the minor children. In a case of cow-smuggling, the Punjab and
Working animal - Wikipedia — Haryana High Court mandated that "entire animal kingdom including avian and aquatic" species has a "distinct legal persona with corresponding rights, duties, and
Working animal - Wikipedia — liabilities of a living person" and humans are "loco parentis" while laying out the norms for animal welfare, veterinary treatment, fodder and shelter, e.g. animal drawn
Working animal - Wikipedia — carriages must not have more than four humans, and load carrying animals must not be loaded beyond the speciﬁed limits and those limits must be halved when
Working animal - Wikipedia — animals have to carry the load up a slope. A court while deciding the Animal Welfare Board of India vs Nagaraja case in 2014 mandated that animals are also entitled to
Working animal - Wikipedia — the fundamental right to freedom[20] enshrined in the Article 21 of Constitution of India i.e. right to life, personal liberty and the right to die with dignity (passive
Working animal - Wikipedia — euthanasia). In another case, a court in Uarakhand state mandated that animals have the same rights as humans.[21]
Working animal - Wikipedia — Police and military
Working animal - Wikipedia — Legal status
Working animal - Wikipedia — Agriculture portal
Working animal - Wikipedia — Dogs portal
Working animal - Wikipedia — Horses portal
Working animal - Wikipedia — Insects portal
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Service animal – Animal to assist people with disabilities
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Animal rights – Rights belonging to animals
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Animal sentinel – Organisms used to detect risks to
Working animal - Wikipedia — humans
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Animals in ﬁlm and television
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Animals in sport – Sports that involve use of animals
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Biological pest control – Controlling pests using other
Working animal - Wikipedia — organisms
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Draft horse – Large horse bred for heavy work
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Cruelty to animals – Negligent or abusive action against
Working animal - Wikipedia — animals by humans
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Commercial animal cloning – Commercial cloning of
Working animal - Wikipedia — animals
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Donkey rides
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Experiment (horse-powered boat) – Horse-powered boat
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Horse-drawn boat – Canal boat pulled by a horse on a
Working animal - Wikipedia — towpath
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Horse-drawn vehicle – Vehicle pulled by one or more
Working animal - Wikipedia — horses
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Horseboating Society – Society promoting horse-drawn
Working animal - Wikipedia — boating.
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Hymenoptera training – Bees or wasps trained to detect
Working animal - Wikipedia — dangerous substances
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ List of domesticated animals
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Mixed farming – Economic activity
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Non-human electoral candidate – Candidate proposed as
Working animal - Wikipedia — a protest or for satire
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Pet culture – Interaction of humans and pets
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Working cat – Domestic cat kept primarily for pest
Working animal - Wikipedia — control rather than companionship
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Working dog – Dog trained to perform practical tasks
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Drafting dog – Dog bred for a speciﬁc type of work
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Seizure response dog – Assists person during or
Working animal - Wikipedia — immediately before or after a seizure
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Guard dog – Working dog
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Scent hound – Dog type, hunting dog
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Working rat
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Truﬄe hog – Domestic pig
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Pack animal – Individual or type of working animal used
Working animal - Wikipedia — by humans
Working animal - Wikipedia — ▪ Jack (baboon) – Chacma baboon and mobility aid (died
Working animal - Wikipedia — 1890)
Working animal - Wikipedia — 1. Андрей Зайцев (8 May 2013). Оленьи батальоны на Мурманском
Working animal - Wikipedia — рубеже (https://web.archive.org/web/20140808070811/http://murm
Working animal - Wikipedia — an.rfn.ru/rnews.html?id=1072121&cid=7) (in Russian). Мурман.
Working animal - Wikipedia — Archived from the original (http://murman.rfn.ru/rnews.html?id=107
Working animal - Wikipedia — 2121&cid=7) on 2014-08-08. Retrieved 2014-08-05.
Working animal - Wikipedia — 2. "Russian soldiers train in sub-zero temperatures with reindeer" (http
Working animal - Wikipedia — s://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-35487449). BBC. 4 February
Working animal - Wikipedia — 2016. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20160204005002/htt
Working animal - Wikipedia — p://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-35487449) from the original
Working animal - Wikipedia — on 2016-02-04. Retrieved 2016-02-04.
Working animal - Wikipedia — References
Working animal - Wikipedia — 3. Juan Bautista Ignacio Molina (1808). The Geographical, Natural and
Working animal - Wikipedia — Civil History of Chili (https://books.google.com/books?id=F4oIAAAAQA
Working animal - Wikipedia — AJ). Vol. II. pp. 15 & 16.
Working animal - Wikipedia — 4. Eckholm, Erik (14 May 2010). "Trying to Take a Bite Out of Crime via
Working animal - Wikipedia — Felons' Dogs" (https://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/15/us/15dogs.htm
Working animal - Wikipedia — l). The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331 (https://search.worldcat.org/is
Working animal - Wikipedia — sn/0362-4331). Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/202303021632
Working animal - Wikipedia — 19/https://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/15/us/15dogs.html) from the
Working animal - Wikipedia — original on 2023-03-02. Retrieved 2023-03-04.
Working animal - Wikipedia — 5. Henley, Jon (27 September 2000). "Monkeys the new weapon of Paris
Working animal - Wikipedia — gangs" (https://www.theguardian.com/world/2000/sep/27/jonhenle
Working animal - Wikipedia — y). The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077 (https://search.worldcat.org/issn/02
Working animal - Wikipedia — 61-3077). Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20230302163219/ht
Working animal - Wikipedia — tps://www.theguardian.com/world/2000/sep/27/jonhenley) from the
Working animal - Wikipedia — 6. "Asian Carp Overview" (https://www.nps.gov/miss/learn/nature/asca
Working animal - Wikipedia — rpover.htm). National Park Service. 24 June 2019. Archived (https://we
Working animal - Wikipedia — b.archive.org/web/20151217220521/http://www.nps.gov/miss/learn/
Working animal - Wikipedia — nature/ascarpover.htm) from the original on 2015-12-17. Retrieved
Working animal - Wikipedia — 2019-10-15.
Working animal - Wikipedia — 7. Davis, Nicola (25 September 2020). " 'Any breed could do it': dogs
Working animal - Wikipedia — might be a Covid tester's best friend" (https://www.theguardian.co
Working animal - Wikipedia — m/world/2020/sep/25/any-breed-could-do-it-dogs-might-be-covid-te
Working animal - Wikipedia — sters-best-friend). The Guardian. Archived (https://web.archive.org/w
Working animal - Wikipedia — eb/20210116112511/https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/se
Working animal - Wikipedia — p/25/any-breed-could-do-it-dogs-might-be-covid-testers-best-friend)
Working animal - Wikipedia — from the original on 2021-01-16. Retrieved 2021-01-16.
Working animal - Wikipedia — 8. Else, Holly (23 November 2020). "Can dogs smell COVID? Here's what
Working animal - Wikipedia — the science says" (https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-0314
Working animal - Wikipedia — 9-9). Nature. 587 (7835): 530–531. Bibcode:2020Natur.587..530E (http
Working animal - Wikipedia — s://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2020Natur.587..530E). doi:10.1038/
Working animal - Wikipedia — d41586-020-03149-9 (https://doi.org/10.1038%2Fd41586-020-0314
Working animal - Wikipedia — 9-9). PMID 33230277 (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33230277).
Working animal - Wikipedia — S2CID 227158181 (https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:227158
Working animal - Wikipedia — 181). Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20210208152248/http
Working animal - Wikipedia — s://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-03149-9) from the original
Working animal - Wikipedia — on 2021-02-08. Retrieved 2021-01-16.
Working animal - Wikipedia — 9. Jendrny, Paula; Schulz, Claudia; Twele, Friederike; et al. (23 July 2020).
Working animal - Wikipedia — "Scent dog identiﬁcation of samples from COVID-19 patients – a pilot
Working animal - Wikipedia — study" (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7376324).
Working animal - Wikipedia — BMC Infectious Diseases. 20 (1): 536. doi:10.1186/s12879-020-05281-3
Working animal - Wikipedia — (https://doi.org/10.1186%2Fs12879-020-05281-3). ISSN 1471-2334 (ht
Working animal - Wikipedia — tps://search.worldcat.org/issn/1471-2334). PMC 7376324 (https://ww
Working animal - Wikipedia — w.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7376324). PMID 32703188 (http
Working animal - Wikipedia — s://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32703188).
