Human — Humans (Homo sapiens) are primates that belong to the biological family of great apes, characterized by hairlessness, bipedality, and high intelligence.
Human — Humans have large brains, enabling more advanced cognitive skills that facilitate successful adaptation to varied environments, development of sophisticated tools, and formation of complex social structures and civilizations.
Human — Humans are highly social, with individual humans tending to belong to a multi-layered network of distinct social groups – from families and peer groups to corporations and political states.
Human — As such, social interactions between humans have established a wide variety of values, social norms, languages, and traditions (collectively termed institutions), each of which bolsters human society.
Human — Humans are also highly curious: the desire to understand and influence phenomena has motivated humanity's development of science, technology, philosophy, mythology, religion, and other frameworks of knowledge; humans also study themselves through such domains as anthropology, social science, history, psychology, and medicine.
Human — The Neolithic Revolution occurred independently in multiple locations, the earliest in Southwest Asia 13,000 years ago, and saw the emergence of agriculture and permanent human settlement; in turn, this led to the development of civilization and kickstarted a period of continuous (and ongoing) population growth and rapid technological change.
Human — Since then, a number of civilizations have risen and fallen, while a number of sociocultural and technological developments have resulted in significant changes to the human lifestyle.
Human — Humans are omnivorous, capable of consuming a wide variety of plant and animal material, and have used fire and other forms of heat to prepare and cook food since the time of Homo erectus.
Human — Human population growth, industrialization, land development, overconsumption and combustion of fossil fuels have led to environmental destruction and pollution that significantly contributes to the ongoing mass extinction of other forms of life.
Human — Within the last century, humans have explored challenging environments such as Antarctica, the deep sea, and outer space, though human habitation in these environments is typically limited in duration and restricted to scientific, military, or industrial expeditions.
Human — Humans have visited the Moon and sent human-made spacecraft to other celestial bodies, becoming the first known species to do so.
Human — Although the term "humans" technically equates with all members of the genus Homo, in common usage it generally refers to Homo sapiens, the only extant member.
Human — All other members of the genus Homo, which are now extinct, are known as archaic humans, and the term "modern human" is used to distinguish Homo sapiens from archaic humans.
Human — Anatomically modern humans emerged around 300,000 years ago in Africa, evolving from Homo heidelbergensis or a similar species.
Human — Migrating out of Africa, they gradually replaced and interbred with local populations of archaic humans.
Human — Multiple hypotheses for the extinction of archaic human species such as Neanderthals include competition, violence, interbreeding with Homo sapiens, or inability to adapt to climate change.
Human — Genes and the environment influence human biological variation in visible characteristics, physiology, disease susceptibility, mental abilities, body size, and life span.
Human — Though humans vary in many traits (such as genetic predispositions and physical features), humans are among the least genetically diverse primates.
Human — Humans are sexually dimorphic: generally, males have greater body strength and females have a higher body fat percentage.
Human — Females are capable of pregnancy, usually between puberty, at around 12 years old, and menopause, around the age of 50.
Human — Often, both the mother and the father provide care for their children, who are helpless at birth.
Human — All modern humans are classified into the species Homo sapiens, coined by Carl Linnaeus in his 1735 work Systema Naturae.
Human — The generic name Homo is a learned 18th-century derivation from Latin homō, which refers to humans of either sex.
Human — There is disagreement if certain extinct members of the genus, namely Neanderthals, should be included as a separate species of humans or as a subspecies of H. sapiens.
Human — Human is a loanword of Middle English from Old French humain, ultimately from Latin hūmānus, the adjectival form of homō ('man' – in the sense of humanity).
Human — The native English term man can refer to the species generally (a synonym for humanity) as well as to human males.
Human — Despite the fact that the word animal is colloquially used as an antonym for human, and contrary to a common biological misconception, humans are in a biological sense animals.
Human — The word person is often used interchangeably with human, but philosophical debate exists as to whether personhood applies to all humans or all sentient beings, and further if a human can lose personhood (such as by going into a persistent vegetative state) and what is the beginning of human personhood.
Human — The lineage of apes that eventually gave rise to humans first split from gibbons (family Hylobatidae), next orangutans (genus Pongo), then gorillas (genus Gorilla), and finally, chimpanzees and bonobos (genus Pan).
Human — The last split, between the human and chimpanzee–bonobo lineages, took place around 8–4 million years ago, in the late Miocene epoch.
Human — During this split, chromosome 2 was formed from the joining of two other chromosomes, leaving humans with only 23 pairs of chromosomes, compared to 24 for the other apes.
Human — Following their split with chimpanzees and bonobos, the hominins diversified into many species and at least two distinct genera.
Human — All but one of these lineages – representing the genus Homo and its sole extant species Homo sapiens – are now extinct.
Human — Though fossils from the transition are scarce, the earliest members of Homo share several key traits with Australopithecus.
Human — Due to the scant available evidence dating the time of divergence to the genus Homo does not have a consensus.
Human — Some studies using molecular clock techniques estimate the Homo genus appeared 4.30–2.56 million years ago, while others contest that some early Homo species are incorrectly included in the genus and therefor put this estimate at about 1.87 million years ago.
Human — The earliest record of Homo is the 2.8 million-year-old specimen LD 350-1 from Ethiopia, and the earliest named species are Homo habilis and Homo rudolfensis which evolved by 2.3 million years ago.
Human — H. erectus (the African variant is sometimes called H. ergaster) evolved 2 million years ago and was the first archaic human species to leave Africa and disperse across Eurasia.
Human — Homo sapiens emerged in Africa around 300,000 years ago from a species commonly designated as either H. heidelbergensis or H. rhodesiensis, the descendants of H. erectus that remained in Africa.
Human — H. sapiens migrated out of the continent, gradually replacing or interbreeding with local populations of archaic humans.
Human — Humans began exhibiting behavioral modernity about 160,000–70,000 years ago, and possibly earlier.
Human — This development was likely selected amidst natural climate change in Middle to Late Pleistocene Africa.
Human — The "out of Africa" migration took place in at least two waves, the first around 130,000 to 100,000 years ago, the second (Southern Dispersal) around 70,000 to 50,000 years ago.
Human — H. sapiens proceeded to colonize all the continents and larger islands, arriving in Eurasia 125,000 years ago, Australia around 65,000 years ago, the Americas around 15,000 years ago, and remote islands such as Hawaii, Easter Island, Madagascar, and New Zealand in the years 300 to 1280 CE.
Human — Human evolution was not a simple linear or branched progression but involved interbreeding between related species.
Human — Genomic research has shown that hybridization between substantially diverged lineages was common in human evolution.
Human — DNA evidence suggests that several genes of Neanderthal origin are present among all non sub-Saharan-African populations, and Neanderthals and other hominins, such as Denisovans, may have contributed up to 6% of their genome to present-day non sub-Saharan-African humans.
Human — Human evolution is characterized by a number of morphological, developmental, physiological, and behavioral changes that have taken place since the split between the last common ancestor of humans and chimpanzees.
Human — The most significant of these adaptations are hairlessness, obligate bipedalism, increased brain size and decreased sexual dimorphism (neoteny).
Human — The Neolithic Revolution (the invention of agriculture) first took place in Southwest Asia and spread through large parts of the Old World over the following millennia.
Human — It also occurred independently in Mesoamerica (about 6,000 years ago), China, Papua New Guinea, and the Sahel and West Savanna regions of Africa.
Human — Access to food surplus led to the formation of permanent human settlements, the domestication of animals and the use of metal tools for the first time in history.
Human — Agriculture and sedentary lifestyle led to the emergence of early civilizations.
Human — An urban revolution took place in the 4th millennium BCE with the development of city-states, particularly Sumerian cities located in Mesopotamia.
Human — It was in these cities that the earliest known form of writing, cuneiform script, appeared around 3000 BCE.
Human — Other major civilizations to develop around this time were Ancient Egypt and the Indus Valley Civilisation.
Human — They eventually traded with each other and invented technology such as wheels, plows and sails.
Human — Emerging by 3000 BCE, the Caral–Supe civilization is the oldest complex civilization in the Americas.
Human — Astronomy and mathematics were also developed and the Great Pyramid of Giza was built.
Human — There is evidence of a severe drought lasting about a hundred years that may have caused the decline of these civilizations, with new ones appearing in the aftermath.
Human — Babylonians came to dominate Mesopotamia while others, such as the Poverty Point culture, Minoans and the Shang dynasty, rose to prominence in new areas.
Human — The Late Bronze Age collapse around 1200 BCE resulted in the disappearance of a number of civilizations and the beginning of the Greek Dark Ages.
Human — In the 5th century BCE, history started being recorded as a discipline, which provided a much clearer picture of life at the time.
Human — Between the 8th and 6th century BCE, Europe entered the classical antiquity age, a period when ancient Greece and ancient Rome flourished.
Human — In Africa, the Kingdom of Aksum overtook the declining Kingdom of Kush and facilitated trade between India and the Mediterranean.
Human — In West Asia, the Achaemenid Empire's system of centralized governance became the precursor to many later empires, while the Gupta Empire in India and the Han dynasty in China have been described as golden ages in their respective regions.
Human — Following the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476, Europe entered the Middle Ages.
Human — During this period, Christianity and the Church would act as a source of authority and education.
Human — In the Middle East, Islam became the prominent religion and expanded into North Africa.
Human — It led to an Islamic Golden Age, inspiring achievements in architecture, the revival of old advances in science and technology, and the formation of a distinct way of life.
Human — The Christian and Islamic worlds would eventually clash, with the Kingdom of England, the Kingdom of France and the Holy Roman Empire declaring a series of holy wars to regain control of the Holy Land from Muslims.
Human — In the Americas, between 200 and 900 CE Mesoamerica was in its Classic Period, while further north, complex Mississippian societies would arise starting around 800 CE.
Human — Over this same time period, the Mali Empire in Africa grew to be the largest empire on the continent, stretching from Senegambia to Ivory Coast.
Human — Oceania would see the rise of the Tuʻi Tonga Empire which expanded across many islands in the South Pacific.
Human — By the late 15th century, the Aztecs and Inca had become the dominant power in Mesoamerica and the Andes, respectively.
Human — 1450–1800) began with the final defeat of the Byzantine Empire, and the rise of the Ottoman Empire.
Human — Meanwhile, Japan entered the Edo period, the Qing dynasty rose in China and the Mughal Empire ruled much of India.
Human — Europe underwent the Renaissance, starting in the 15th century, and the Age of Discovery began with the exploring and colonizing of new regions.
Human — This expansion led to the Atlantic slave trade and the genocide of the Americas' indigenous peoples.
Human — This period also marked the Scientific Revolution, with great advances in mathematics, mechanics, astronomy and physiology.
Human — The late modern period (1800–present) saw the Technological and Industrial Revolution bring such discoveries as imaging technology, major innovations in transport and energy development.
Human — Influenced by Enlightenment ideals, the Americas and Europe experienced a period of political revolutions known as the Age of Revolution.
Human — The Napoleonic Wars raged through Europe in the early 1800s, Spain lost most of its colonies in the New World, while Europeans continued expansion into Africa – where European control went from 10% to almost 90% in less than 50 years – and Oceania.
Human — In the 19th century, the British Empire expanded to become the world's largest empire.
Human — A tenuous balance of power among European nations collapsed in 1914 with the outbreak of the First World War, one of the deadliest conflicts in history.
Human — In the 1930s, a worldwide economic crisis led to the rise of authoritarian regimes and a Second World War, involving almost all of the world's countries.
Human — The war's destruction led to the collapse of most global empires, leading to widespread decolonization.
Human — Following the conclusion of the Second World War in 1945, the United States and the Soviet Union emerged as the remaining global superpowers.
Human — This led to a Cold War that saw a struggle for global influence, including a nuclear arms race and a space race, ending in the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Human — The current Information Age, spurred by the development of the Internet and artificial intelligence systems, sees the world becoming increasingly globalized and interconnected.
Human — Early human settlements were dependent on proximity to water and – depending on the lifestyle – other natural resources used for subsistence, such as populations of animal prey for hunting and arable land for growing crops and grazing livestock.
Human — Modern humans, however, have a great capacity for altering their habitats by means of technology, irrigation, urban planning, construction, deforestation and desertification.
Human — Human settlements continue to be vulnerable to natural disasters, especially those placed in hazardous locations and with low quality of construction.
Human — Grouping and deliberate habitat alteration is often done with the goals of providing protection, accumulating comforts or material wealth, expanding the available food, improving aesthetics, increasing knowledge or enhancing the exchange of resources.
Human — Humans are one of the most adaptable species, despite having a low or narrow tolerance for many of the earth's extreme environments.
Human — Currently the species is present in all eight biogeographical realms, although their presence in the Antarctic realm is very limited to research stations and annually there is a population decline in the winter months of this realm.
Human — Humans established nation-states in the other seven realms, such as South Africa, India, Russia, Australia, Fiji, the United States, and Brazil (each located in a different biogeographical realm).
Human — Within the last century, humans have also explored the deep sea and outer space.
Human — Human habitation within these hostile environments is restrictive and expensive, typically limited in duration, and restricted to scientific, military, or industrial expeditions.
Human — Humans have visited the Moon and made their presence known on other celestial bodies through human-made robotic spacecraft.
Human — Since 2000, there has been continuous human presence in space through habitation on the International Space Station.
Human — By using advanced tools and clothing, humans have been able to extend their tolerance to a wide variety of temperatures, humidities, and altitudes.
Human — As a result, humans are a cosmopolitan species found in almost all regions of the world, including tropical rainforest, arid desert, extremely cold arctic regions, and heavily polluted cities; in comparison, most other species are confined to a few geographical areas by their limited adaptability.
Human — The human population is not, however, uniformly distributed on the Earth's surface, because the population density varies from one region to another, and large stretches of surface are almost completely uninhabited, like Antarctica and vast swathes of the ocean.
Human — Most humans (61%) live in Asia; the remainder live in the Americas (14%), Africa (14%), Europe (11%), and Oceania (0.5%).
Human — Estimates of the population at the time agriculture emerged in around 10,000 BC have ranged between 1 million and 15 million.
Human — Around 50–60 million people lived in the combined eastern and western Roman Empire in the 4th century AD.
Human — Bubonic plagues, first recorded in the 6th century AD, reduced the population by 50%, with the Black Death killing 75–200 million people in Eurasia and North Africa alone.
Human — It has since then increased exponentially, reaching two billion in 1930 and three billion in 1960, four in 1975, five in 1987 and six billion in 1999.
Human — It took over two million years of human prehistory and history for the human population to reach one billion and only 207 years more to grow to 7 billion.
Human — The combined biomass of the carbon of all the humans on Earth in 2018 was estimated at 60 million tons, about 10 times larger than that of all non-domesticated mammals.
Human — In 2018, 4.2 billion humans (55%) lived in urban areas, up from 751 million in 1950.
Human — The most urbanized regions are Northern America (82%), Latin America (81%), Europe (74%) and Oceania (68%), with Africa and Asia having nearly 90% of the world's 3.4 billion rural population.
Human — Problems for humans living in cities include various forms of pollution and crime, especially in inner city and suburban slums.
Human — Most aspects of human physiology are closely homologous to corresponding aspects of animal physiology.
Human — Humans have proportionately shorter palates and much smaller teeth than other primates.
Human — Humans have characteristically crowded teeth, with gaps from lost teeth usually closing up quickly in young individuals.
Human — Humans are gradually losing their third molars, with some individuals having them congenitally absent.
Human — Humans share with chimpanzees a vestigial tail, appendix, flexible shoulder joints, grasping fingers and opposable thumbs.
Human — Humans also have a more barrel-shaped chest in contrast to the funnel shape of other apes, an adaptation for bipedal respiration.
Human — Apart from bipedalism and brain size, humans differ from chimpanzees mostly in smelling, hearing and digesting proteins.
Human — While humans have a density of hair follicles comparable to other apes, it is predominantly vellus hair, most of which is so short and wispy as to be practically invisible.
Human — Humans have about 2 million sweat glands spread over their entire bodies, many more than chimpanzees, whose sweat glands are scarce and are mainly located on the palm of the hand and on the soles of the feet.
Human — It is estimated that the worldwide average height for an adult human male is about 171 cm (5 ft 7 in), while the worldwide average height for adult human females is about 159 cm (5 ft 3 in).
Human — Shrinkage of stature may begin in middle age in some individuals but tends to be typical in the extremely aged.
Human — Throughout history, human populations have universally become taller, probably as a consequence of better nutrition, healthcare, and living conditions.
Human — The average mass of an adult human is 59 kg (130 lb) for females and 77 kg (170 lb) for males.
Human — Like many other conditions, body weight and body type are influenced by both genetic susceptibility and environment and varies greatly among individuals.
Human — Humans are also among the best long-distance runners in the animal kingdom, but slower over short distances.
Human — Humans' thinner body hair and more productive sweat glands help avoid heat exhaustion while running for long distances.
Human — Compared to other apes, the human heart produces greater stroke volume and cardiac output and the aorta is proportionately larger.
Human — Humans are, like most animals, plants, and fungi, a eukaryotic, and like most animals a diploid species.
Human — Each somatic cell has two sets of 23 chromosomes, each set received from one parent; gametes have only one set of chromosomes, which is a mixture of the two parental sets.
Human — Among the 23 pairs of chromosomes, there are 22 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes.
Human — Like other mammals, humans have an XY sex-determination system, so that females have the sex chromosomes XX and males have XY.
Human — Genes and environment influence human biological variation in visible characteristics, physiology, disease susceptibility and mental abilities.
Human — The exact influence of genes and environment on certain traits is not well understood.
Human — While no humans – not even monozygotic twins – are genetically identical, two humans on average will have a genetic similarity of 99.5%-99.9%.
Human — This small variation in human DNA compared to many other species suggests a population bottleneck during the Late Pleistocene (around 100,000 years ago), in which the human population was reduced to a small number of breeding pairs.
Human — The forces of natural selection have continued to operate on human populations, with evidence that certain regions of the genome display directional selection in the past 15,000 years.
Human — The human genome was first sequenced in 2001 and by 2020 hundreds of thousands of genomes had been sequenced.
Human — In 2012 the International HapMap Project had compared the genomes of 1,184 individuals from 11 populations and identified 1.6 million single nucleotide polymorphisms.
Human — While many of the common variants found in populations outside of Africa are also found on the African continent, there are still large numbers that are private to these regions, especially Oceania and the Americas.
Human — By comparing mitochondrial DNA, which is inherited only from the mother, geneticists have concluded that the last female common ancestor whose genetic marker is found in all modern humans, the so-called mitochondrial Eve, must have lived around 90,000 to 200,000 years ago.
Human — Most human reproduction takes place by internal fertilization via sexual intercourse, but can also occur through assisted reproductive technology procedures.
Human — The average gestation period is 38 weeks, but a normal pregnancy can vary by up to 37 days.
Human — Embryonic development in the human covers the first eight weeks of development; at the beginning of the ninth week the embryo is termed a fetus.
Human — Humans are able to induce early labor or perform a caesarean section if the child needs to be born earlier for medical reasons.
Human — In developed countries, infants are typically 3–4 kg (7–9 lb) in weight and 47–53 cm (19–21 in) in height at birth.
Human — However, low birth weight is common in developing countries, and contributes to the high levels of infant mortality in these regions.
Human — Compared with other species, human childbirth is dangerous, with a much higher risk of complications and death.
Human — The size of the fetus's head is more closely matched to the pelvis than in other primates.
Human — The reason for this is not completely understood, but it contributes to a painful labor that can last 24 hours or more.
Human — The chances of a successful labor increased significantly during the 20th century in wealthier countries with the advent of new medical technologies.
Human — In contrast, pregnancy and natural childbirth remain hazardous ordeals in developing regions of the world, with maternal death rates approximately 100 times greater than in developed countries.
Human — Both the mother and the father provide care for human offspring, in contrast to other primates, where parental care is mostly done by the mother.
Human — Helpless at birth, humans continue to grow for some years, typically reaching sexual maturity at 15 to 17 years of age.
Human — The human life span has been split into various stages ranging from three to twelve.
Human — The lengths of these stages have varied across cultures and time periods but is typified by an unusually rapid growth spurt during adolescence.
Human — It has been proposed that menopause increases a woman's overall reproductive success by allowing her to invest more time and resources in her existing offspring, and in turn their children (the grandmother hypothesis), rather than by continuing to bear children into old age.
Human — The life span of an individual depends on two major factors, genetics and lifestyle choices.
Human — For various reasons, including biological/genetic causes, women live on average about four years longer than men.
Human — As of 2018, the global average life expectancy at birth of a girl is estimated to be 74.9 years compared to 70.4 for a boy.
Human — There are significant geographical variations in human life expectancy, mostly correlated with economic development – for example, life expectancy at birth in Hong Kong is 87.6 years for girls and 81.8 for boys, while in the Central African Republic, it is 55.0 years for girls and 50.6 for boys.
Human — While one in five Europeans is 60 years of age or older, only one in twenty Africans is 60 years of age or older.
Human — In 2012, the United Nations estimated that there were 316,600 living centenarians (humans of age 100 or older) worldwide.
Human — Humans are omnivorous, capable of consuming a wide variety of plant and animal material.
Human — Human groups have adopted a range of diets from purely vegan to primarily carnivorous.
Human — In some cases, dietary restrictions in humans can lead to deficiency diseases; however, stable human groups have adapted to many dietary patterns through both genetic specialization and cultural conventions to use nutritionally balanced food sources.
Human — The human diet is prominently reflected in human culture and has led to the development of food science.
Human — Until the development of agriculture, Homo sapiens employed a hunter-gatherer method as their sole means of food collection.
Human — This involved combining stationary food sources (such as fruits, grains, tubers, and mushrooms, insect larvae and aquatic mollusks) with wild game, which must be hunted and captured in order to be consumed.
Human — It has been proposed that humans have used fire to prepare and cook food since the time of Homo erectus.
Human — Human domestication of wild plants began about 11,700 years ago, leading to the development of agriculture, a gradual process called the Neolithic Revolution.
Human — These dietary changes may also have altered human biology; the spread of dairy farming provided a new and rich source of food, leading to the evolution of the ability to digest lactose in some adults.
Human — The types of food consumed, and how they are prepared, have varied widely by time, location, and culture.
Human — In general, humans can survive for up to eight weeks without food, depending on stored body fat.
Human — Survival without water is usually limited to three or four days, with a maximum of one week.
Human — In 2020, it was estimated 9 million humans die every year from causes directly or indirectly related to starvation.
Human — Childhood malnutrition is also common and contributes to the global burden of disease.
Human — However, global food distribution is not even, and obesity among some human populations has increased rapidly, leading to health complications and increased mortality in some developed and a few developing countries.
Human — Worldwide, over one billion people are obese, while in the United States 35% of people are obese, leading to this being described as an "obesity epidemic." Obesity is caused by consuming more calories than are expended, so excessive weight gain is usually caused by an energy-dense diet.
Human — Food consumption is the first step of the digestive process, in which humans ultimately expel feces ranging in frequency from multiple times per day to multiple times per week.
Human — === Biological variation === There is biological variation in the human species – with traits such as blood type, genetic diseases, cranial features, facial features, organ systems, eye color, hair color and texture, height and build, and skin color varying across the globe.
Human — The typical height of an adult human is between 1.4 and 1.9 m (4 ft 7 in and 6 ft 3 in), although this varies significantly depending on sex, ethnic origin, and family bloodlines.
Human — Body size is partly determined by genes and is also significantly influenced by environmental factors such as diet, exercise, and sleep patterns.
Human — There is evidence that populations have adapted genetically to various external factors.
Human — The genes that allow adult humans to digest lactose are present in high frequencies in populations that have long histories of cattle domestication and are more dependent on cow milk.
Human — Sickle cell anemia, which may provide increased resistance to malaria, is frequent in populations where malaria is endemic.
Human — Populations that have for a very long time inhabited specific climates tend to have developed specific phenotypes that are beneficial for those environments – short stature and stocky build in cold regions, tall and lanky in hot regions, and with high lung capacities or other adaptations at high altitudes.
Human — Some populations have evolved highly unique adaptations to very specific environmental conditions, such as those advantageous to ocean-dwelling lifestyles and freediving in the Bajau.
Human — Human hair ranges in color from red to blond to brown to black, which is the most frequent.
Human — Hair color depends on the amount of melanin, with concentrations fading with increased age, leading to grey or even white hair.
Human — Skin color can range from darkest brown to lightest peach, or even nearly white or colorless in cases of albinism.
Human — It tends to vary clinally and generally correlates with the level of ultraviolet radiation in a particular geographic area, with darker skin mostly around the equator.
Human — Skin darkening may have evolved as protection against ultraviolet solar radiation.
Human — Light skin pigmentation protects against depletion of vitamin D, which requires sunlight to make.
Human — Human skin also has a capacity to darken (tan) in response to exposure to ultraviolet radiation.
Human — There is relatively little variation between human geographical populations, and most of the variation that occurs is at the individual level.
Human — Much of human variation is continuous, often with no clear points of demarcation.
Human — Genetic data shows that no matter how population groups are defined, two people from the same population group are almost as different from each other as two people from any two different population groups.
Human — Dark-skinned populations that are found in Africa, Australia, and South Asia are not closely related to each other.
Human — Genetic research has demonstrated that human populations native to the African continent are the most genetically diverse and genetic diversity decreases with migratory distance from Africa, possibly the result of bottlenecks during human migration.
Human — These non-African populations acquired new genetic inputs from local admixture with archaic populations and have much greater variation from Neanderthals and Denisovans than is found in Africa, though Neanderthal admixture into African populations may be underestimated.
Human — Furthermore, recent studies have found that populations in sub-Saharan Africa, and particularly West Africa, have ancestral genetic variation which predates modern humans and has been lost in most non-African populations.
Human — Some of this ancestry is thought to originate from admixture with an unknown archaic hominin that diverged before the split of Neanderthals and modern humans.
Human — Humans are a gonochoric species, meaning they are divided into male and female sexes.
Human — While the nucleotide genetic variation of individuals of the same sex across global populations is no greater than 0.1%–0.5%, the genetic difference between males and females is between 1% and 2%.
Human — On average, men have about 40–50% more upper-body strength and 20–30% more lower-body strength than women at the same weight, due to higher amounts of muscle and larger muscle fibers.
Human — Women have lighter skin than men of the same population; this has been explained by a higher need for vitamin D in females during pregnancy and lactation.
Human — As there are chromosomal differences between females and males, some X and Y chromosome-related conditions and disorders only affect either men or women.
Human — After allowing for body weight and volume, the male voice is usually an octave deeper than the female voice.
Human — The human brain, the focal point of the central nervous system in humans, controls the peripheral nervous system.
Human — In addition to controlling "lower", involuntary, or primarily autonomic activities such as respiration and digestion, it is also the locus of "higher" order functioning such as thought, reasoning, and abstraction.
Human — These cognitive processes constitute the mind, and, along with their behavioral consequences, are studied in the field of psychology.
Human — Humans have a larger and more developed prefrontal cortex than other primates, the region of the brain associated with higher cognition.
Human — This has led humans to proclaim themselves to be more intelligent than any other known species.
Human — Objectively defining intelligence is difficult, with other animals adapting senses and excelling in areas that humans are unable to.
Human — There are some traits that, although not strictly unique, do set humans apart from other animals.
Human — Humans may be the only animals who have episodic memory and who can engage in "mental time travel".
Human — Even compared with other social animals, humans have an unusually high degree of flexibility in their facial expressions.
Human — Humans are one of the few animals able to self-recognize in mirror tests and there is also debate over to what extent humans are the only animals with a theory of mind.
Human — The average sleep requirement is between seven and nine hours per day for an adult and nine to ten hours per day for a child; elderly people usually sleep for six to seven hours.
Human — Having less sleep than this is common among humans, even though sleep deprivation can have negative health effects.
Human — A sustained restriction of adult sleep to four hours per day has been shown to correlate with changes in physiology and mental state, including reduced memory, fatigue, aggression, and bodily discomfort.
Human — Dreaming is stimulated by the pons and mostly occurs during the REM phase of sleep.
Human — Dreamers are more likely to remember the dream if awakened during the REM phase.
Human — The events in dreams are generally outside the control of the dreamer, with the exception of lucid dreaming, where the dreamer is self-aware.
Human — Dreams can at times make a creative thought occur or give a sense of inspiration.
Human — Human consciousness, at its simplest, is sentience or awareness of internal or external existence.
Human — Despite centuries of analyses, definitions, explanations and debates by philosophers and scientists, the underlying nature of consciousness remains enigmatic and poorly understood, being "at once the most familiar and most mysterious aspect of our lives".
Human — Opinions differ about what exactly needs to be studied and explained as consciousness.
Human — Some philosophers divide consciousness into phenomenal consciousness, which is sensory experience itself, and access consciousness, which can be used for reasoning or directly controlling actions.
Human — It is sometimes synonymous with 'the mind', and at other times, an aspect of it.
Human — Historically it is associated with introspection, private thought, imagination and volition.
Human — It now often includes some kind of experience, cognition, feeling or perception.
Human — There might be different levels or orders of consciousness, or different kinds of consciousness, or just one kind with different features.
Human — The process of acquiring knowledge and understanding through thought, experience, and the senses is known as cognition.
Human — The human brain perceives the external world through the senses, and each individual human is influenced greatly by his or her experiences, leading to subjective views of existence and the passage of time.
Human — Cognitive psychology studies cognition, the mental processes underlying behavior.
Human — Largely focusing on the development of the human mind through the life span, developmental psychology seeks to understand how people come to perceive, understand, and act within the world and how these processes change as they age.
Human — This may focus on intellectual, cognitive, neural, social, or moral development.
Human — Psychologists have developed intelligence tests and the concept of intelligence quotient in order to assess the relative intelligence of human beings and study its distribution among population.
Human — From a psychological perspective, Maslow's hierarchy of needs is a well-established theory that can be defined as the process of satisfying certain needs in ascending order of complexity.
Human — From a more general, philosophical perspective, human motivation can be defined as a commitment to, or withdrawal from, various goals requiring the application of human ability.
Human — Furthermore, incentive and preference are both factors, as are any perceived links between incentives and preferences.
Human — Ideally, both motivation and volition ensure the selection, striving for, and realization of goals in an optimal manner, a function beginning in childhood and continuing throughout a lifetime in a process known as socialization.
Human — Emotions are biological states associated with the nervous system brought on by neurophysiological changes variously associated with thoughts, feelings, behavioral responses, and a degree of pleasure or displeasure.
Human — They are often intertwined with mood, temperament, personality, disposition, creativity, and motivation.
Human — Emotion has a significant influence on human behavior and their ability to learn.
Human — Acting on extreme or uncontrolled emotions can lead to social disorder and crime, with studies showing criminals may have a lower emotional intelligence than normal.
Human — Emotional experiences perceived as pleasant, such as joy, interest or contentment, contrast with those perceived as unpleasant, like anxiety, sadness, anger, and despair.
Human — Some define it as experiencing the feeling of positive emotional affects, while avoiding the negative ones.
Human — Recent research suggests that being happy might involve experiencing some negative emotions when humans feel they are warranted.
Human — For humans, sexuality involves biological, erotic, physical, emotional, social, or spiritual feelings and behaviors.
Human — Because it is a broad term, which has varied with historical contexts over time, it lacks a precise definition.
Human — The biological and physical aspects of sexuality largely concern the human reproductive functions, including the human sexual response cycle.
Human — Sexuality also affects and is affected by cultural, political, legal, philosophical, moral, ethical, and religious aspects of life.
Human — Sexual desire, or libido, is a basic mental state present at the beginning of sexual behavior.
Human — Humans can fall anywhere along a continuous scale of sexual orientation, although most humans are heterosexual.
Human — While homosexual behavior occurs in some other animals, only humans and domestic sheep have so far been found to exhibit exclusive preference for same-sex relationships.
Human — Most evidence supports nonsocial, biological causes of sexual orientation, as cultures that are very tolerant of homosexuality do not have significantly higher rates of it.
Human — Research in neuroscience and genetics suggests that other aspects of human sexuality are biologically influenced as well.
Human — Love most commonly refers to a feeling of strong attraction or emotional attachment.
Human — It can be impersonal (the love of an object, ideal, or strong political or spiritual connection) or interpersonal (love between humans).
Human — When in love dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin and other chemicals stimulate the brain's pleasure center, leading to side effects such as increased heart rate, loss of appetite and sleep, and an intense feeling of excitement.
Human — Humanity's unprecedented set of intellectual skills were a key factor in the species' eventual technological advancement and concomitant domination of the biosphere.
Human — Disregarding extinct hominids, humans are the only animals known to teach generalizable information, innately deploy recursive embedding to generate and communicate complex concepts, engage in the "folk physics" required for competent tool design, or cook food in the wild.
Human — Teaching and learning preserves the cultural and ethnographic identity of human societies.
Human — Other traits and behaviors that are mostly unique to humans include starting fires, phoneme structuring and vocal learning.
Human — While many species communicate, language is unique to humans, a defining feature of humanity, and a cultural universal.
Human — Unlike the limited systems of other animals, human language is open – an infinite number of meanings can be produced by combining a limited number of symbols.
Human — Human language also has the capacity of displacement, using words to represent things and happenings that are not presently or locally occurring but reside in the shared imagination of interlocutors.
Human — Language differs from other forms of communication in that it is modality independent; the same meanings can be conveyed through different media, audibly in speech, visually by sign language or writing, and through tactile media such as braille.
Human — Language is central to the communication between humans, and to the sense of identity that unites nations, cultures and ethnic groups.
Human — There are approximately six thousand different languages currently in use, including sign languages, and many thousands more that are extinct.
Human — === The arts === Human arts can take many forms including visual, literary, and performing.
Human — Visual art can range from paintings and sculptures to film, fashion design, and architecture.
Human — Other entities that have been described as having artistic qualities include food preparation, video games, and medicine.
Human — As well as providing entertainment and transferring knowledge, the arts are also used for political purposes.
Human — Art is a defining characteristic of humans and there is evidence for a relationship between creativity and language.
Human — The earliest evidence of art was shell engravings made by Homo erectus 300,000 years before modern humans evolved.
Human — Art attributed to H. sapiens existed at least 75,000 years ago, with jewellery and drawings found in caves in South Africa.
Human — These include allowing them to better problem solve issues, providing a means to control or influence other humans, encouraging cooperation and contribution within a society or increasing the chance of attracting a potential mate.
Human — The use of imagination developed through art, combined with logic may have given early humans an evolutionary advantage.
Human — Evidence of humans engaging in musical activities predates cave art and so far music has been practiced by virtually all known human cultures.
Human — There exists a wide variety of music genres and ethnic musics; with humans' musical abilities being related to other abilities, including complex social human behaviours.
Human — It has been shown that human brains respond to music by becoming synchronized with the rhythm and beat, a process called entrainment.
Human — Dance is also a form of human expression found in all cultures and may have evolved as a way to help early humans communicate.
Human — Listening to music and observing dance stimulates the orbitofrontal cortex and other pleasure sensing areas of the brain.
Human — Unlike speaking, reading and writing does not come naturally to humans and must be taught.
Human — Still, literature has been present before the invention of words and language, with 30,000-year-old paintings on walls inside some caves portraying a series of dramatic scenes.
Human — One of the oldest surviving works of literature is the Epic of Gilgamesh, first engraved on ancient Babylonian tablets about 4,000 years ago.
Human — Beyond simply passing down knowledge, the use and sharing of imaginative fiction through stories might have helped develop humans' capabilities for communication and increased the likelihood of securing a mate.
Human — Storytelling may also be used as a way to provide the audience with moral lessons and encourage cooperation.
Human — The use and manufacture of tools has been put forward as the ability that defines humans more than anything else and has historically been seen as an important evolutionary step.
Human — The technology became much more sophisticated about 1.8 million years ago, with the controlled use of fire beginning around 1 million years ago.
Human — The wheel and wheeled vehicles appeared simultaneously in several regions some time in the fourth millennium BC.
Human — The development of more complex tools and technologies allowed land to be cultivated and animals to be domesticated, thus proving essential in the development of agriculture – what is known as the Neolithic Revolution.
Human — China developed paper, the printing press, gunpowder, the compass and other important inventions.
Human — The continued improvements in smelting allowed forging of copper, bronze, iron and eventually steel, which is used in railways, skyscrapers and many other products.
Human — This coincided with the Industrial Revolution, where the invention of automated machines brought major changes to humans' lifestyles.
Human — Modern technology is observed as progressing exponentially, with major innovations in the 20th century including: electricity, penicillin, semiconductors, internal combustion engines, the Internet, nitrogen fixing fertilizers, airplanes, computers, automobiles, contraceptive pills, nuclear fission, the green revolution, radio, scientific plant breeding, rockets, air conditioning, television and the assembly line.
Human — Definitions of religion vary; according to one definition, a religion is a belief system concerning the supernatural, sacred or divine, and practices, values, institutions and rituals associated with such belief.
Human — The evolution and the history of the first religions have become areas of active scientific investigation.
Human — Credible evidence of religious behaviour dates to the Middle Paleolithic era (45–200 thousand years ago).
Human — It may have evolved to play a role in helping enforce and encourage cooperation between humans.
Human — Religion can include a belief in life after death, the origin of life, the nature of the universe (religious cosmology) and its ultimate fate (eschatology), and moral or ethical teachings.
Human — Views on transcendence and immanence vary substantially; traditions variously espouse monism, deism, pantheism, and theism (including polytheism and monotheism).
Human — Although measuring religiosity is difficult, a majority of humans profess some variety of religious or spiritual belief.
Human — As of 2015, about 16%, or slightly under 1.2 billion humans, were irreligious, including those with no religious beliefs or no identity with any religion.
Human — An aspect unique to humans is their ability to transmit knowledge from one generation to the next and to continually build on this information to develop tools, scientific laws and other advances to pass on further.
Human — This accumulated knowledge can be tested to answer questions or make predictions about how the universe functions and has been very successful in advancing human ascendancy.
Human — Aristotle has been described as the first scientist, and preceded the rise of scientific thought through the Hellenistic period.
Human — Other early advances in science came from the Han dynasty in China and during the Islamic Golden Age.
Human — The scientific revolution, near the end of the Renaissance, led to the emergence of modern science.
Human — A chain of events and influences led to the development of the scientific method, a process of observation and experimentation that is used to differentiate science from pseudoscience.
Human — An understanding of mathematics is unique to humans, although other species of animals have some numerical cognition.
Human — All of science can be divided into three major branches, the formal sciences (e.g., logic and mathematics), which are concerned with formal systems, the applied sciences (e.g., engineering, medicine), which are focused on practical applications, and the empirical sciences, which are based on empirical observation and are in turn divided into natural sciences (e.g., physics, chemistry, biology) and social sciences (e.g., psychology, economics, sociology).
Human — Philosophy is a field of study where humans seek to understand fundamental truths about themselves and the world in which they live.
Human — Philosophical inquiry has been a major feature in the development of humans' intellectual history.
Human — It has been described as the "no man's land" between definitive scientific knowledge and dogmatic religious teachings.
Human — Major fields of philosophy include metaphysics, epistemology, logic, and axiology (which includes ethics and aesthetics).
Human — Society is the system of organizations and institutions arising from interaction between humans.
Human — They can be divided into different groups according to their income, wealth, power, reputation and other factors.
Human — The structure of social stratification and the degree of social mobility differs, especially between modern and traditional societies.
Human — The first form of human social organization is thought to have resembled hunter-gatherer band societies.
Human — Human societies typically exhibit gender identities and gender roles that distinguish between masculine and feminine characteristics and prescribe the range of acceptable behaviours and attitudes for their members based on their sex.
Human — In some other societies, non-binary is used as an umbrella term for a range of gender identities that are not solely male or female.
Human — Gender roles are often associated with a division of norms, practices, dress, behavior, rights, duties, privileges, status, and power, with men enjoying more rights and privileges than women in most societies, both today and in the past.
Human — As a social construct, gender roles are not fixed and vary historically within a society.
Human — Early modern humans probably had a range of gender roles similar to that of modern cultures from at least the Upper Paleolithic, while the Neanderthals were less sexually dimorphic and there is evidence that the behavioural difference between males and females was minimal.
Human — All human societies organize, recognize and classify types of social relationships based on relations between parents, children and other descendants (consanguinity), and relations through marriage (affinity).
Human — There is also a third type applied to godparents or adoptive children (fictive).
Human — In many societies, it is one of the most important social organizing principles and plays a role in transmitting status and inheritance.
Human — All societies have rules of incest taboo, according to which marriage between certain kinds of kin relations is prohibited, and some also have rules of preferential marriage with certain kin relations.
Human — Pair bonding is a ubiquitous feature of human sexual relationships, whether it is manifested as serial monogamy, polygyny, or polyandry.
Human — Genetic evidence indicates that humans were predominantly polygynous for most of their existence as a species, but that this began to shift during the Neolithic, when monogamy started becoming widespread concomitantly with the transition from nomadic to sedentary societies.
Human — Anatomical evidence in the form of second-to-fourth digit ratios, a biomarker for prenatal androgen effects, likewise indicates modern humans were polygynous during the Pleistocene.
Human — Human ethnic groups are a social category that identifies together as a group based on shared attributes that distinguish them from other groups.
Human — These can be a common set of traditions, ancestry, language, history, society, culture, nation, religion, or social treatment within their residing area.
Human — Ethnicity is separate from the concept of race, which is based on physical characteristics, although both are socially constructed.
Human — Assigning ethnicity to a certain population is complicated, as even within common ethnic designations there can be a diverse range of subgroups, and the makeup of these ethnic groups can change over time at both the collective and individual level.
Human — Also, there is no generally accepted definition of what constitutes an ethnic group.
Human — Ethnic groupings can play a powerful role in the social identity and solidarity of ethnopolitical units.
Human — This has been closely tied to the rise of the nation state as the predominant form of political organization in the 19th and 20th centuries.
Human — As farming populations gathered in larger and denser communities, interactions between these different groups increased.
Human — Humans have evolved the ability to change affiliation with various social groups relatively easily, including previously strong political alliances, if doing so is seen as providing personal advantages.
Human — This cognitive flexibility allows individual humans to change their political ideologies, with those with higher flexibility less likely to support authoritarian and nationalistic stances.
Human — There have been many forms of government throughout human history, each having various means of obtaining power and the ability to exert diverse controls on the population.
Human — Approximately 47% of humans live in some form of a democracy, 17% in a hybrid regime, and 37% in an authoritarian regime.
Human — Many countries belong to international organizations and alliances; the largest of these is the United Nations, with 193 member states.
Human — Trade, the voluntary exchange of goods and services, is seen as a characteristic that differentiates humans from other animals and has been cited as a practice that gave Homo sapiens a major advantage over other hominids.
Human — Evidence suggests early H. sapiens made use of long-distance trade routes to exchange goods and ideas, leading to cultural explosions and providing additional food sources when hunting was sparse, while such trade networks did not exist for the now extinct Neanderthals.
Human — The first truly international trade routes were around the spice trade through the Roman and medieval periods.
Human — Early human economies were more likely to be based around gift giving instead of a bartering system.
Human — Early money consisted of commodities; the oldest being in the form of cattle and the most widely used being cowrie shells.
Human — Money has since evolved into governmental issued coins, paper and electronic money.
Human — Human study of economics is a social science that looks at how societies distribute scarce resources among different people.
Human — There are massive inequalities in the division of wealth among humans; the eight richest humans are worth the same monetary value as the poorest half of all the human population.
Human — Humans commit violence on other humans at a rate comparable to other primates, but have an increased preference for killing adults, infanticide being more common among other primates.
Human — Phylogenetic analysis predicts that 2% of early H. sapiens would be murdered, rising to 12% during the medieval period, before dropping to below 2% in modern times.
Human — There is great variation in violence between human populations, with rates of homicide about 0.01% in societies that have legal systems and strong cultural attitudes against violence.
Human — The willingness of humans to kill other members of their species en masse through organized conflict (i.e., war) has long been the subject of debate.
Human — One school of thought holds that war evolved as a means to eliminate competitors, and has always been an innate human characteristic.
Human — Another suggests that war is a relatively recent phenomenon and has appeared due to changing social conditions.
Human — While not settled, current evidence indicates warlike predispositions only became common about 10,000 years ago, and in many places much more recently than that.
Human — War has had a high cost on human life; it is estimated that during the 20th century, between 167 million and 188 million people died as a result of war.
Human — War casualty data is less reliable for pre-medieval times, especially global figures.
Human — But compared with any period over the past 600 years, the last 80 years (post 1946) has seen a very significant drop in global military and civilian death rates due to armed conflict.
Person — A person (pl.: people or persons, depending on context) is a being who has certain capacities or attributes such as reason, morality, consciousness or self-consciousness, and being a part of a culturally established form of social relations such as kinship, ownership of property, or legal responsibility.
Person — The defining features of personhood and, consequently, what makes a person count as a person, differ widely among cultures and contexts.
Person — In addition to the question of personhood, of what makes a being count as a person to begin with, there are further questions about personal identity and self: both about what makes any particular person that particular person instead of another, and about what makes a person at one time the same person as they were or will be at another time despite any intervening changes.
Person — The plural form "people" is often used to refer to an entire nation or ethnic group (as in "a people"), and this was the original meaning of the word; it subsequently acquired its use as a plural form of person.
Person — The criteria for being a person... are designed to capture those attributes which are the subject of our most humane concern with ourselves and the source of what we regard as most important and most problematical in our lives.
Person — Defining personhood is a controversial topic in philosophy and law, and is closely tied to legal and political concepts of citizenship, equality, and liberty.
Person — According to common worldwide general legal practice, only a natural person or legal personality has rights, protections, privileges, responsibilities, and legal liability.
Person — Personhood continues to be a topic of international debate, and has been questioned during the abolition of slavery and the fight for women's rights, in debates about abortion, fetal rights, and in animal rights advocacy.
Person — Various debates have focused on questions about the personhood of different classes of entities.
Person — Historically, the personhood of women, and slaves has been a catalyst of social upheaval.
Person — Likewise, certain legal entities such as corporations, sovereign states and other polities, or estates in probate are legally defined as persons.
Person — However, some people believe that other groups should be included; depending on the theory, the category of "person" may be taken to include or not pre-natal humans or such non-human entities as animals, artificial intelligences, or extraterrestrial life.
Person — That is to say, the necessary and sufficient conditions under which a person at one time and a person at another time can be said to be the same person, persisting through time.
Person — In the modern philosophy of mind, this concept of personal identity is sometimes referred to as the diachronic problem of personal identity.
Person — The synchronic problem is grounded in the question of what features or traits characterize a given person at one time.
Person — A key question in continental philosophy is in what sense we can maintain the modern conception of identity, while realizing many of our prior assumptions about the world are incorrect.
Person — Proposed solutions to the problem of personal identity include continuity of the physical body, continuity of an immaterial mind or soul, continuity of consciousness or memory, the bundle theory of self, continuity of personality after the death of the physical body, and proposals that there are actually no persons or selves who persist over time at all.
Person — == Development of the concept == In ancient Rome, the word persona (Latin) or prosopon (πρόσωπον; Ancient Greek) originally referred to the masks worn by actors on stage.
Person — The concept of person was further developed during the Trinitarian and Christological debates of the 4th and 5th centuries in contrast to the word nature.
Person — During the theological debates, some philosophical tools (concepts) were needed so that the debates could be held on common basis to all theological schools.
Person — The purpose of the debate was to establish the relation, similarities and differences between the logos (Ancient Greek: Λóγος, romanized: Lógos/Verbum) and God.
Person — The philosophical concept of person arose, taking the word "prosopon" (Ancient Greek: πρόσωπον, romanized: prósōpon) from the Greek theatre.
Person — Therefore, the logos (the Ancient Greek: Λóγος, romanized: Lógos/Verbum), which was identified with the Christ, was defined as a "person" of God.
Person — This concept was applied later to the Holy Ghost, the angels and to all human beings.
Person — Since then, a number of important changes to the word's meaning and use have taken place, and attempts have been made to redefine the word with varying degrees of adoption and influence.
Person — "The ontological definition of the person as "an individual substance of a rational nature" (Boethius).
Person — The self-consciousness-based definition of the person as a being that "can conceive itself as itself" (John Locke).
Person — The moral-philosophical definition of the person as "an end in itself" (Immanuel Kant).
Person — In current analytical debate, the focus has shifted to the relationship between bodily organism and person.
Person — Olson) states that people are essentially animals and that mental or psychological attributes play no role in their identity.
Person — Constitution theory (Lynne Baker), on the other hand, attempts to define the person as a natural and at the same time self-conscious being: the bodily organism constitutes the person without being identical to it.
Person — Another idea] for conceiving the natural-rational unity of the person has emerged recently in the concept of the "person life" (Marya Schechtman)." Other theories attribute personhood to those states that are viewed to possess intrinsic or universal value.
Person — Value theory attempts to capture those states that are universally considered valuable by their nature, allowing one to assign the concept of personhood upon those states.
Person — For example, Chris Kelly argues that the value that is intuitively bestowed upon humans, their possessions, animals, and aspects of the natural environment is due to a value monism known as "richness." Richness, Kelly argues, is a product of the "variety" and the "unity" within an entity or agent.
Person — According to Kelly, human beings and animals are morally valued and entitled to the status of persons because they are complex organisms whose multitude of psychological and biological components are generally unified towards a singular purpose in any moment, existing and operating with relative harmony.
Person — ISBN 1-349-22116-3 Lukes, Steven; Carrithers, Michael; Collins, Steven, eds. (1987).
Person — In: Thomas Kirchhoff (ed.): Online Encyclopedia Philosophy of Nature / Online Lexikon Naturphilosophie.
Person — Heidelberg, Universitätsbibliothek Heidelberg: https://doi.org/10.11588/oepn.2019.0.66403.
Person — Rights of Non-Human Persons Program (Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies)
Homo sapiens — Humans (Homo sapiens) are primates that belong to the biological family of great apes, characterized by hairlessness, bipedality, and high intelligence.
Homo sapiens — Humans have large brains, enabling more advanced cognitive skills that facilitate successful adaptation to varied environments, development of sophisticated tools, and formation of complex social structures and civilizations.
Homo sapiens — Humans are highly social, with individual humans tending to belong to a multi-layered network of distinct social groups – from families and peer groups to corporations and political states.
Homo sapiens — As such, social interactions between humans have established a wide variety of values, social norms, languages, and traditions (collectively termed institutions), each of which bolsters human society.
Homo sapiens — Humans are also highly curious: the desire to understand and influence phenomena has motivated humanity's development of science, technology, philosophy, mythology, religion, and other frameworks of knowledge; humans also study themselves through such domains as anthropology, social science, history, psychology, and medicine.
Homo sapiens — The Neolithic Revolution occurred independently in multiple locations, the earliest in Southwest Asia 13,000 years ago, and saw the emergence of agriculture and permanent human settlement; in turn, this led to the development of civilization and kickstarted a period of continuous (and ongoing) population growth and rapid technological change.
Homo sapiens — Since then, a number of civilizations have risen and fallen, while a number of sociocultural and technological developments have resulted in significant changes to the human lifestyle.
Homo sapiens — Humans are omnivorous, capable of consuming a wide variety of plant and animal material, and have used fire and other forms of heat to prepare and cook food since the time of Homo erectus.
Homo sapiens — Human population growth, industrialization, land development, overconsumption and combustion of fossil fuels have led to environmental destruction and pollution that significantly contributes to the ongoing mass extinction of other forms of life.
Homo sapiens — Within the last century, humans have explored challenging environments such as Antarctica, the deep sea, and outer space, though human habitation in these environments is typically limited in duration and restricted to scientific, military, or industrial expeditions.
Homo sapiens — Humans have visited the Moon and sent human-made spacecraft to other celestial bodies, becoming the first known species to do so.
Homo sapiens — Although the term "humans" technically equates with all members of the genus Homo, in common usage it generally refers to Homo sapiens, the only extant member.
Homo sapiens — All other members of the genus Homo, which are now extinct, are known as archaic humans, and the term "modern human" is used to distinguish Homo sapiens from archaic humans.
Homo sapiens — Anatomically modern humans emerged around 300,000 years ago in Africa, evolving from Homo heidelbergensis or a similar species.
Homo sapiens — Migrating out of Africa, they gradually replaced and interbred with local populations of archaic humans.
Homo sapiens — Multiple hypotheses for the extinction of archaic human species such as Neanderthals include competition, violence, interbreeding with Homo sapiens, or inability to adapt to climate change.
Homo sapiens — Genes and the environment influence human biological variation in visible characteristics, physiology, disease susceptibility, mental abilities, body size, and life span.
Homo sapiens — Though humans vary in many traits (such as genetic predispositions and physical features), humans are among the least genetically diverse primates.
Homo sapiens — Humans are sexually dimorphic: generally, males have greater body strength and females have a higher body fat percentage.
Homo sapiens — Females are capable of pregnancy, usually between puberty, at around 12 years old, and menopause, around the age of 50.
Homo sapiens — Often, both the mother and the father provide care for their children, who are helpless at birth.
Homo sapiens — All modern humans are classified into the species Homo sapiens, coined by Carl Linnaeus in his 1735 work Systema Naturae.
Homo sapiens — The generic name Homo is a learned 18th-century derivation from Latin homō, which refers to humans of either sex.
Homo sapiens — There is disagreement if certain extinct members of the genus, namely Neanderthals, should be included as a separate species of humans or as a subspecies of H. sapiens.
Homo sapiens — Human is a loanword of Middle English from Old French humain, ultimately from Latin hūmānus, the adjectival form of homō ('man' – in the sense of humanity).
Homo sapiens — The native English term man can refer to the species generally (a synonym for humanity) as well as to human males.
Homo sapiens — Despite the fact that the word animal is colloquially used as an antonym for human, and contrary to a common biological misconception, humans are in a biological sense animals.
Homo sapiens — The word person is often used interchangeably with human, but philosophical debate exists as to whether personhood applies to all humans or all sentient beings, and further if a human can lose personhood (such as by going into a persistent vegetative state) and what is the beginning of human personhood.
Homo sapiens — The lineage of apes that eventually gave rise to humans first split from gibbons (family Hylobatidae), next orangutans (genus Pongo), then gorillas (genus Gorilla), and finally, chimpanzees and bonobos (genus Pan).
Homo sapiens — The last split, between the human and chimpanzee–bonobo lineages, took place around 8–4 million years ago, in the late Miocene epoch.
Homo sapiens — During this split, chromosome 2 was formed from the joining of two other chromosomes, leaving humans with only 23 pairs of chromosomes, compared to 24 for the other apes.
Homo sapiens — Following their split with chimpanzees and bonobos, the hominins diversified into many species and at least two distinct genera.
Homo sapiens — All but one of these lineages – representing the genus Homo and its sole extant species Homo sapiens – are now extinct.
Homo sapiens — Though fossils from the transition are scarce, the earliest members of Homo share several key traits with Australopithecus.
Homo sapiens — Due to the scant available evidence dating the time of divergence to the genus Homo does not have a consensus.
Homo sapiens — Some studies using molecular clock techniques estimate the Homo genus appeared 4.30–2.56 million years ago, while others contest that some early Homo species are incorrectly included in the genus and therefor put this estimate at about 1.87 million years ago.
Homo sapiens — The earliest record of Homo is the 2.8 million-year-old specimen LD 350-1 from Ethiopia, and the earliest named species are Homo habilis and Homo rudolfensis which evolved by 2.3 million years ago.
Homo sapiens — H. erectus (the African variant is sometimes called H. ergaster) evolved 2 million years ago and was the first archaic human species to leave Africa and disperse across Eurasia.
Homo sapiens — Homo sapiens emerged in Africa around 300,000 years ago from a species commonly designated as either H. heidelbergensis or H. rhodesiensis, the descendants of H. erectus that remained in Africa.
Homo sapiens — H. sapiens migrated out of the continent, gradually replacing or interbreeding with local populations of archaic humans.
Homo sapiens — Humans began exhibiting behavioral modernity about 160,000–70,000 years ago, and possibly earlier.
Homo sapiens — This development was likely selected amidst natural climate change in Middle to Late Pleistocene Africa.
Homo sapiens — The "out of Africa" migration took place in at least two waves, the first around 130,000 to 100,000 years ago, the second (Southern Dispersal) around 70,000 to 50,000 years ago.
Homo sapiens — H. sapiens proceeded to colonize all the continents and larger islands, arriving in Eurasia 125,000 years ago, Australia around 65,000 years ago, the Americas around 15,000 years ago, and remote islands such as Hawaii, Easter Island, Madagascar, and New Zealand in the years 300 to 1280 CE.
Homo sapiens — Human evolution was not a simple linear or branched progression but involved interbreeding between related species.
Homo sapiens — Genomic research has shown that hybridization between substantially diverged lineages was common in human evolution.
Homo sapiens — DNA evidence suggests that several genes of Neanderthal origin are present among all non sub-Saharan-African populations, and Neanderthals and other hominins, such as Denisovans, may have contributed up to 6% of their genome to present-day non sub-Saharan-African humans.
Homo sapiens — Human evolution is characterized by a number of morphological, developmental, physiological, and behavioral changes that have taken place since the split between the last common ancestor of humans and chimpanzees.
Homo sapiens — The most significant of these adaptations are hairlessness, obligate bipedalism, increased brain size and decreased sexual dimorphism (neoteny).
Homo sapiens — The Neolithic Revolution (the invention of agriculture) first took place in Southwest Asia and spread through large parts of the Old World over the following millennia.
Homo sapiens — It also occurred independently in Mesoamerica (about 6,000 years ago), China, Papua New Guinea, and the Sahel and West Savanna regions of Africa.
Homo sapiens — Access to food surplus led to the formation of permanent human settlements, the domestication of animals and the use of metal tools for the first time in history.
Homo sapiens — Agriculture and sedentary lifestyle led to the emergence of early civilizations.
Homo sapiens — An urban revolution took place in the 4th millennium BCE with the development of city-states, particularly Sumerian cities located in Mesopotamia.
Homo sapiens — It was in these cities that the earliest known form of writing, cuneiform script, appeared around 3000 BCE.
Homo sapiens — Other major civilizations to develop around this time were Ancient Egypt and the Indus Valley Civilisation.
Homo sapiens — They eventually traded with each other and invented technology such as wheels, plows and sails.
Homo sapiens — Emerging by 3000 BCE, the Caral–Supe civilization is the oldest complex civilization in the Americas.
Homo sapiens — Astronomy and mathematics were also developed and the Great Pyramid of Giza was built.
Homo sapiens — There is evidence of a severe drought lasting about a hundred years that may have caused the decline of these civilizations, with new ones appearing in the aftermath.
Homo sapiens — Babylonians came to dominate Mesopotamia while others, such as the Poverty Point culture, Minoans and the Shang dynasty, rose to prominence in new areas.
Homo sapiens — The Late Bronze Age collapse around 1200 BCE resulted in the disappearance of a number of civilizations and the beginning of the Greek Dark Ages.
Homo sapiens — In the 5th century BCE, history started being recorded as a discipline, which provided a much clearer picture of life at the time.
Homo sapiens — Between the 8th and 6th century BCE, Europe entered the classical antiquity age, a period when ancient Greece and ancient Rome flourished.
Homo sapiens — In Africa, the Kingdom of Aksum overtook the declining Kingdom of Kush and facilitated trade between India and the Mediterranean.
Homo sapiens — In West Asia, the Achaemenid Empire's system of centralized governance became the precursor to many later empires, while the Gupta Empire in India and the Han dynasty in China have been described as golden ages in their respective regions.
Homo sapiens — Following the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476, Europe entered the Middle Ages.
Homo sapiens — During this period, Christianity and the Church would act as a source of authority and education.
Homo sapiens — In the Middle East, Islam became the prominent religion and expanded into North Africa.
Homo sapiens — It led to an Islamic Golden Age, inspiring achievements in architecture, the revival of old advances in science and technology, and the formation of a distinct way of life.
Homo sapiens — The Christian and Islamic worlds would eventually clash, with the Kingdom of England, the Kingdom of France and the Holy Roman Empire declaring a series of holy wars to regain control of the Holy Land from Muslims.
Homo sapiens — In the Americas, between 200 and 900 CE Mesoamerica was in its Classic Period, while further north, complex Mississippian societies would arise starting around 800 CE.
Homo sapiens — Over this same time period, the Mali Empire in Africa grew to be the largest empire on the continent, stretching from Senegambia to Ivory Coast.
Homo sapiens — Oceania would see the rise of the Tuʻi Tonga Empire which expanded across many islands in the South Pacific.
Homo sapiens — By the late 15th century, the Aztecs and Inca had become the dominant power in Mesoamerica and the Andes, respectively.
Homo sapiens — 1450–1800) began with the final defeat of the Byzantine Empire, and the rise of the Ottoman Empire.
Homo sapiens — Meanwhile, Japan entered the Edo period, the Qing dynasty rose in China and the Mughal Empire ruled much of India.
Homo sapiens — Europe underwent the Renaissance, starting in the 15th century, and the Age of Discovery began with the exploring and colonizing of new regions.
Homo sapiens — This expansion led to the Atlantic slave trade and the genocide of the Americas' indigenous peoples.
Homo sapiens — This period also marked the Scientific Revolution, with great advances in mathematics, mechanics, astronomy and physiology.
Homo sapiens — The late modern period (1800–present) saw the Technological and Industrial Revolution bring such discoveries as imaging technology, major innovations in transport and energy development.
Homo sapiens — Influenced by Enlightenment ideals, the Americas and Europe experienced a period of political revolutions known as the Age of Revolution.
Homo sapiens — The Napoleonic Wars raged through Europe in the early 1800s, Spain lost most of its colonies in the New World, while Europeans continued expansion into Africa – where European control went from 10% to almost 90% in less than 50 years – and Oceania.
Homo sapiens — In the 19th century, the British Empire expanded to become the world's largest empire.
Homo sapiens — A tenuous balance of power among European nations collapsed in 1914 with the outbreak of the First World War, one of the deadliest conflicts in history.
Homo sapiens — In the 1930s, a worldwide economic crisis led to the rise of authoritarian regimes and a Second World War, involving almost all of the world's countries.
Homo sapiens — The war's destruction led to the collapse of most global empires, leading to widespread decolonization.
Homo sapiens — Following the conclusion of the Second World War in 1945, the United States and the Soviet Union emerged as the remaining global superpowers.
Homo sapiens — This led to a Cold War that saw a struggle for global influence, including a nuclear arms race and a space race, ending in the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Homo sapiens — The current Information Age, spurred by the development of the Internet and artificial intelligence systems, sees the world becoming increasingly globalized and interconnected.
Homo sapiens — Early human settlements were dependent on proximity to water and – depending on the lifestyle – other natural resources used for subsistence, such as populations of animal prey for hunting and arable land for growing crops and grazing livestock.
Homo sapiens — Modern humans, however, have a great capacity for altering their habitats by means of technology, irrigation, urban planning, construction, deforestation and desertification.
Homo sapiens — Human settlements continue to be vulnerable to natural disasters, especially those placed in hazardous locations and with low quality of construction.
Homo sapiens — Grouping and deliberate habitat alteration is often done with the goals of providing protection, accumulating comforts or material wealth, expanding the available food, improving aesthetics, increasing knowledge or enhancing the exchange of resources.
Homo sapiens — Humans are one of the most adaptable species, despite having a low or narrow tolerance for many of the earth's extreme environments.
Homo sapiens — Currently the species is present in all eight biogeographical realms, although their presence in the Antarctic realm is very limited to research stations and annually there is a population decline in the winter months of this realm.
Homo sapiens — Humans established nation-states in the other seven realms, such as South Africa, India, Russia, Australia, Fiji, the United States, and Brazil (each located in a different biogeographical realm).
Homo sapiens — Within the last century, humans have also explored the deep sea and outer space.
Homo sapiens — Human habitation within these hostile environments is restrictive and expensive, typically limited in duration, and restricted to scientific, military, or industrial expeditions.
Homo sapiens — Humans have visited the Moon and made their presence known on other celestial bodies through human-made robotic spacecraft.
Homo sapiens — Since 2000, there has been continuous human presence in space through habitation on the International Space Station.
Homo sapiens — By using advanced tools and clothing, humans have been able to extend their tolerance to a wide variety of temperatures, humidities, and altitudes.
Homo sapiens — As a result, humans are a cosmopolitan species found in almost all regions of the world, including tropical rainforest, arid desert, extremely cold arctic regions, and heavily polluted cities; in comparison, most other species are confined to a few geographical areas by their limited adaptability.
Homo sapiens — The human population is not, however, uniformly distributed on the Earth's surface, because the population density varies from one region to another, and large stretches of surface are almost completely uninhabited, like Antarctica and vast swathes of the ocean.
Homo sapiens — Most humans (61%) live in Asia; the remainder live in the Americas (14%), Africa (14%), Europe (11%), and Oceania (0.5%).
Homo sapiens — Estimates of the population at the time agriculture emerged in around 10,000 BC have ranged between 1 million and 15 million.
Homo sapiens — Around 50–60 million people lived in the combined eastern and western Roman Empire in the 4th century AD.
Homo sapiens — Bubonic plagues, first recorded in the 6th century AD, reduced the population by 50%, with the Black Death killing 75–200 million people in Eurasia and North Africa alone.
Homo sapiens — It has since then increased exponentially, reaching two billion in 1930 and three billion in 1960, four in 1975, five in 1987 and six billion in 1999.
Homo sapiens — It took over two million years of human prehistory and history for the human population to reach one billion and only 207 years more to grow to 7 billion.
Homo sapiens — The combined biomass of the carbon of all the humans on Earth in 2018 was estimated at 60 million tons, about 10 times larger than that of all non-domesticated mammals.
Homo sapiens — In 2018, 4.2 billion humans (55%) lived in urban areas, up from 751 million in 1950.
Homo sapiens — The most urbanized regions are Northern America (82%), Latin America (81%), Europe (74%) and Oceania (68%), with Africa and Asia having nearly 90% of the world's 3.4 billion rural population.
Homo sapiens — Problems for humans living in cities include various forms of pollution and crime, especially in inner city and suburban slums.
Homo sapiens — Most aspects of human physiology are closely homologous to corresponding aspects of animal physiology.
Homo sapiens — Humans have proportionately shorter palates and much smaller teeth than other primates.
Homo sapiens — Humans have characteristically crowded teeth, with gaps from lost teeth usually closing up quickly in young individuals.
Homo sapiens — Humans are gradually losing their third molars, with some individuals having them congenitally absent.
Homo sapiens — Humans share with chimpanzees a vestigial tail, appendix, flexible shoulder joints, grasping fingers and opposable thumbs.
Homo sapiens — Humans also have a more barrel-shaped chest in contrast to the funnel shape of other apes, an adaptation for bipedal respiration.
Homo sapiens — Apart from bipedalism and brain size, humans differ from chimpanzees mostly in smelling, hearing and digesting proteins.
Homo sapiens — While humans have a density of hair follicles comparable to other apes, it is predominantly vellus hair, most of which is so short and wispy as to be practically invisible.
Homo sapiens — Humans have about 2 million sweat glands spread over their entire bodies, many more than chimpanzees, whose sweat glands are scarce and are mainly located on the palm of the hand and on the soles of the feet.
Homo sapiens — It is estimated that the worldwide average height for an adult human male is about 171 cm (5 ft 7 in), while the worldwide average height for adult human females is about 159 cm (5 ft 3 in).
Homo sapiens — Shrinkage of stature may begin in middle age in some individuals but tends to be typical in the extremely aged.
Homo sapiens — Throughout history, human populations have universally become taller, probably as a consequence of better nutrition, healthcare, and living conditions.
Homo sapiens — The average mass of an adult human is 59 kg (130 lb) for females and 77 kg (170 lb) for males.
Homo sapiens — Like many other conditions, body weight and body type are influenced by both genetic susceptibility and environment and varies greatly among individuals.
Homo sapiens — Humans are also among the best long-distance runners in the animal kingdom, but slower over short distances.
Homo sapiens — Humans' thinner body hair and more productive sweat glands help avoid heat exhaustion while running for long distances.
Homo sapiens — Compared to other apes, the human heart produces greater stroke volume and cardiac output and the aorta is proportionately larger.
Homo sapiens — Humans are, like most animals, plants, and fungi, a eukaryotic, and like most animals a diploid species.
Homo sapiens — Each somatic cell has two sets of 23 chromosomes, each set received from one parent; gametes have only one set of chromosomes, which is a mixture of the two parental sets.
Homo sapiens — Among the 23 pairs of chromosomes, there are 22 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes.
Homo sapiens — Like other mammals, humans have an XY sex-determination system, so that females have the sex chromosomes XX and males have XY.
Homo sapiens — Genes and environment influence human biological variation in visible characteristics, physiology, disease susceptibility and mental abilities.
Homo sapiens — The exact influence of genes and environment on certain traits is not well understood.
Homo sapiens — While no humans – not even monozygotic twins – are genetically identical, two humans on average will have a genetic similarity of 99.5%-99.9%.
Homo sapiens — This small variation in human DNA compared to many other species suggests a population bottleneck during the Late Pleistocene (around 100,000 years ago), in which the human population was reduced to a small number of breeding pairs.
Homo sapiens — The forces of natural selection have continued to operate on human populations, with evidence that certain regions of the genome display directional selection in the past 15,000 years.
Homo sapiens — The human genome was first sequenced in 2001 and by 2020 hundreds of thousands of genomes had been sequenced.
Homo sapiens — In 2012 the International HapMap Project had compared the genomes of 1,184 individuals from 11 populations and identified 1.6 million single nucleotide polymorphisms.
Homo sapiens — While many of the common variants found in populations outside of Africa are also found on the African continent, there are still large numbers that are private to these regions, especially Oceania and the Americas.
Homo sapiens — By comparing mitochondrial DNA, which is inherited only from the mother, geneticists have concluded that the last female common ancestor whose genetic marker is found in all modern humans, the so-called mitochondrial Eve, must have lived around 90,000 to 200,000 years ago.
Homo sapiens — Most human reproduction takes place by internal fertilization via sexual intercourse, but can also occur through assisted reproductive technology procedures.
Homo sapiens — The average gestation period is 38 weeks, but a normal pregnancy can vary by up to 37 days.
Homo sapiens — Embryonic development in the human covers the first eight weeks of development; at the beginning of the ninth week the embryo is termed a fetus.
Homo sapiens — Humans are able to induce early labor or perform a caesarean section if the child needs to be born earlier for medical reasons.
Homo sapiens — In developed countries, infants are typically 3–4 kg (7–9 lb) in weight and 47–53 cm (19–21 in) in height at birth.
Homo sapiens — However, low birth weight is common in developing countries, and contributes to the high levels of infant mortality in these regions.
Homo sapiens — Compared with other species, human childbirth is dangerous, with a much higher risk of complications and death.
Homo sapiens — The size of the fetus's head is more closely matched to the pelvis than in other primates.
Homo sapiens — The reason for this is not completely understood, but it contributes to a painful labor that can last 24 hours or more.
Homo sapiens — The chances of a successful labor increased significantly during the 20th century in wealthier countries with the advent of new medical technologies.
Homo sapiens — In contrast, pregnancy and natural childbirth remain hazardous ordeals in developing regions of the world, with maternal death rates approximately 100 times greater than in developed countries.
Homo sapiens — Both the mother and the father provide care for human offspring, in contrast to other primates, where parental care is mostly done by the mother.
Homo sapiens — Helpless at birth, humans continue to grow for some years, typically reaching sexual maturity at 15 to 17 years of age.
Homo sapiens — The human life span has been split into various stages ranging from three to twelve.
Homo sapiens — The lengths of these stages have varied across cultures and time periods but is typified by an unusually rapid growth spurt during adolescence.
Homo sapiens — It has been proposed that menopause increases a woman's overall reproductive success by allowing her to invest more time and resources in her existing offspring, and in turn their children (the grandmother hypothesis), rather than by continuing to bear children into old age.
Homo sapiens — The life span of an individual depends on two major factors, genetics and lifestyle choices.
Homo sapiens — For various reasons, including biological/genetic causes, women live on average about four years longer than men.
Homo sapiens — As of 2018, the global average life expectancy at birth of a girl is estimated to be 74.9 years compared to 70.4 for a boy.
Homo sapiens — There are significant geographical variations in human life expectancy, mostly correlated with economic development – for example, life expectancy at birth in Hong Kong is 87.6 years for girls and 81.8 for boys, while in the Central African Republic, it is 55.0 years for girls and 50.6 for boys.
Homo sapiens — While one in five Europeans is 60 years of age or older, only one in twenty Africans is 60 years of age or older.
Homo sapiens — In 2012, the United Nations estimated that there were 316,600 living centenarians (humans of age 100 or older) worldwide.
Homo sapiens — Humans are omnivorous, capable of consuming a wide variety of plant and animal material.
Homo sapiens — Human groups have adopted a range of diets from purely vegan to primarily carnivorous.
Homo sapiens — In some cases, dietary restrictions in humans can lead to deficiency diseases; however, stable human groups have adapted to many dietary patterns through both genetic specialization and cultural conventions to use nutritionally balanced food sources.
Homo sapiens — The human diet is prominently reflected in human culture and has led to the development of food science.
Homo sapiens — Until the development of agriculture, Homo sapiens employed a hunter-gatherer method as their sole means of food collection.
Homo sapiens — This involved combining stationary food sources (such as fruits, grains, tubers, and mushrooms, insect larvae and aquatic mollusks) with wild game, which must be hunted and captured in order to be consumed.
Homo sapiens — It has been proposed that humans have used fire to prepare and cook food since the time of Homo erectus.
Homo sapiens — Human domestication of wild plants began about 11,700 years ago, leading to the development of agriculture, a gradual process called the Neolithic Revolution.
Homo sapiens — These dietary changes may also have altered human biology; the spread of dairy farming provided a new and rich source of food, leading to the evolution of the ability to digest lactose in some adults.
Homo sapiens — The types of food consumed, and how they are prepared, have varied widely by time, location, and culture.
Homo sapiens — In general, humans can survive for up to eight weeks without food, depending on stored body fat.
Homo sapiens — Survival without water is usually limited to three or four days, with a maximum of one week.
Homo sapiens — In 2020, it was estimated 9 million humans die every year from causes directly or indirectly related to starvation.
Homo sapiens — Childhood malnutrition is also common and contributes to the global burden of disease.
Homo sapiens — However, global food distribution is not even, and obesity among some human populations has increased rapidly, leading to health complications and increased mortality in some developed and a few developing countries.
Homo sapiens — Worldwide, over one billion people are obese, while in the United States 35% of people are obese, leading to this being described as an "obesity epidemic." Obesity is caused by consuming more calories than are expended, so excessive weight gain is usually caused by an energy-dense diet.
Homo sapiens — Food consumption is the first step of the digestive process, in which humans ultimately expel feces ranging in frequency from multiple times per day to multiple times per week.
Homo sapiens — === Biological variation === There is biological variation in the human species – with traits such as blood type, genetic diseases, cranial features, facial features, organ systems, eye color, hair color and texture, height and build, and skin color varying across the globe.
Homo sapiens — The typical height of an adult human is between 1.4 and 1.9 m (4 ft 7 in and 6 ft 3 in), although this varies significantly depending on sex, ethnic origin, and family bloodlines.
Homo sapiens — Body size is partly determined by genes and is also significantly influenced by environmental factors such as diet, exercise, and sleep patterns.
Homo sapiens — There is evidence that populations have adapted genetically to various external factors.
Homo sapiens — The genes that allow adult humans to digest lactose are present in high frequencies in populations that have long histories of cattle domestication and are more dependent on cow milk.
Homo sapiens — Sickle cell anemia, which may provide increased resistance to malaria, is frequent in populations where malaria is endemic.
Homo sapiens — Populations that have for a very long time inhabited specific climates tend to have developed specific phenotypes that are beneficial for those environments – short stature and stocky build in cold regions, tall and lanky in hot regions, and with high lung capacities or other adaptations at high altitudes.
Homo sapiens — Some populations have evolved highly unique adaptations to very specific environmental conditions, such as those advantageous to ocean-dwelling lifestyles and freediving in the Bajau.
Homo sapiens — Human hair ranges in color from red to blond to brown to black, which is the most frequent.
Homo sapiens — Hair color depends on the amount of melanin, with concentrations fading with increased age, leading to grey or even white hair.
Homo sapiens — Skin color can range from darkest brown to lightest peach, or even nearly white or colorless in cases of albinism.
Homo sapiens — It tends to vary clinally and generally correlates with the level of ultraviolet radiation in a particular geographic area, with darker skin mostly around the equator.
Homo sapiens — Skin darkening may have evolved as protection against ultraviolet solar radiation.
Homo sapiens — Light skin pigmentation protects against depletion of vitamin D, which requires sunlight to make.
Homo sapiens — Human skin also has a capacity to darken (tan) in response to exposure to ultraviolet radiation.
Homo sapiens — There is relatively little variation between human geographical populations, and most of the variation that occurs is at the individual level.
Homo sapiens — Much of human variation is continuous, often with no clear points of demarcation.
Homo sapiens — Genetic data shows that no matter how population groups are defined, two people from the same population group are almost as different from each other as two people from any two different population groups.
Homo sapiens — Dark-skinned populations that are found in Africa, Australia, and South Asia are not closely related to each other.
Homo sapiens — Genetic research has demonstrated that human populations native to the African continent are the most genetically diverse and genetic diversity decreases with migratory distance from Africa, possibly the result of bottlenecks during human migration.
Homo sapiens — These non-African populations acquired new genetic inputs from local admixture with archaic populations and have much greater variation from Neanderthals and Denisovans than is found in Africa, though Neanderthal admixture into African populations may be underestimated.
Homo sapiens — Furthermore, recent studies have found that populations in sub-Saharan Africa, and particularly West Africa, have ancestral genetic variation which predates modern humans and has been lost in most non-African populations.
Homo sapiens — Some of this ancestry is thought to originate from admixture with an unknown archaic hominin that diverged before the split of Neanderthals and modern humans.
Homo sapiens — Humans are a gonochoric species, meaning they are divided into male and female sexes.
Homo sapiens — While the nucleotide genetic variation of individuals of the same sex across global populations is no greater than 0.1%–0.5%, the genetic difference between males and females is between 1% and 2%.
Homo sapiens — On average, men have about 40–50% more upper-body strength and 20–30% more lower-body strength than women at the same weight, due to higher amounts of muscle and larger muscle fibers.
Homo sapiens — Women have lighter skin than men of the same population; this has been explained by a higher need for vitamin D in females during pregnancy and lactation.
Homo sapiens — As there are chromosomal differences between females and males, some X and Y chromosome-related conditions and disorders only affect either men or women.
Homo sapiens — After allowing for body weight and volume, the male voice is usually an octave deeper than the female voice.
Homo sapiens — The human brain, the focal point of the central nervous system in humans, controls the peripheral nervous system.
Homo sapiens — In addition to controlling "lower", involuntary, or primarily autonomic activities such as respiration and digestion, it is also the locus of "higher" order functioning such as thought, reasoning, and abstraction.
Homo sapiens — These cognitive processes constitute the mind, and, along with their behavioral consequences, are studied in the field of psychology.
Homo sapiens — Humans have a larger and more developed prefrontal cortex than other primates, the region of the brain associated with higher cognition.
Homo sapiens — This has led humans to proclaim themselves to be more intelligent than any other known species.
Homo sapiens — Objectively defining intelligence is difficult, with other animals adapting senses and excelling in areas that humans are unable to.
Homo sapiens — There are some traits that, although not strictly unique, do set humans apart from other animals.
Homo sapiens — Humans may be the only animals who have episodic memory and who can engage in "mental time travel".
Homo sapiens — Even compared with other social animals, humans have an unusually high degree of flexibility in their facial expressions.
Homo sapiens — Humans are one of the few animals able to self-recognize in mirror tests and there is also debate over to what extent humans are the only animals with a theory of mind.
Homo sapiens — The average sleep requirement is between seven and nine hours per day for an adult and nine to ten hours per day for a child; elderly people usually sleep for six to seven hours.
Homo sapiens — Having less sleep than this is common among humans, even though sleep deprivation can have negative health effects.
Homo sapiens — A sustained restriction of adult sleep to four hours per day has been shown to correlate with changes in physiology and mental state, including reduced memory, fatigue, aggression, and bodily discomfort.
Homo sapiens — Dreaming is stimulated by the pons and mostly occurs during the REM phase of sleep.
Homo sapiens — Dreamers are more likely to remember the dream if awakened during the REM phase.
Homo sapiens — The events in dreams are generally outside the control of the dreamer, with the exception of lucid dreaming, where the dreamer is self-aware.
Homo sapiens — Dreams can at times make a creative thought occur or give a sense of inspiration.
Homo sapiens — Human consciousness, at its simplest, is sentience or awareness of internal or external existence.
Homo sapiens — Despite centuries of analyses, definitions, explanations and debates by philosophers and scientists, the underlying nature of consciousness remains enigmatic and poorly understood, being "at once the most familiar and most mysterious aspect of our lives".
Homo sapiens — Opinions differ about what exactly needs to be studied and explained as consciousness.
Homo sapiens — Some philosophers divide consciousness into phenomenal consciousness, which is sensory experience itself, and access consciousness, which can be used for reasoning or directly controlling actions.
Homo sapiens — It is sometimes synonymous with 'the mind', and at other times, an aspect of it.
Homo sapiens — Historically it is associated with introspection, private thought, imagination and volition.
Homo sapiens — It now often includes some kind of experience, cognition, feeling or perception.
Homo sapiens — There might be different levels or orders of consciousness, or different kinds of consciousness, or just one kind with different features.
Homo sapiens — The process of acquiring knowledge and understanding through thought, experience, and the senses is known as cognition.
Homo sapiens — The human brain perceives the external world through the senses, and each individual human is influenced greatly by his or her experiences, leading to subjective views of existence and the passage of time.
Homo sapiens — Cognitive psychology studies cognition, the mental processes underlying behavior.
Homo sapiens — Largely focusing on the development of the human mind through the life span, developmental psychology seeks to understand how people come to perceive, understand, and act within the world and how these processes change as they age.
Homo sapiens — This may focus on intellectual, cognitive, neural, social, or moral development.
Homo sapiens — Psychologists have developed intelligence tests and the concept of intelligence quotient in order to assess the relative intelligence of human beings and study its distribution among population.
Homo sapiens — From a psychological perspective, Maslow's hierarchy of needs is a well-established theory that can be defined as the process of satisfying certain needs in ascending order of complexity.
Homo sapiens — From a more general, philosophical perspective, human motivation can be defined as a commitment to, or withdrawal from, various goals requiring the application of human ability.
Homo sapiens — Furthermore, incentive and preference are both factors, as are any perceived links between incentives and preferences.
Homo sapiens — Ideally, both motivation and volition ensure the selection, striving for, and realization of goals in an optimal manner, a function beginning in childhood and continuing throughout a lifetime in a process known as socialization.
Homo sapiens — Emotions are biological states associated with the nervous system brought on by neurophysiological changes variously associated with thoughts, feelings, behavioral responses, and a degree of pleasure or displeasure.
Homo sapiens — They are often intertwined with mood, temperament, personality, disposition, creativity, and motivation.
Homo sapiens — Emotion has a significant influence on human behavior and their ability to learn.
Homo sapiens — Acting on extreme or uncontrolled emotions can lead to social disorder and crime, with studies showing criminals may have a lower emotional intelligence than normal.
Homo sapiens — Emotional experiences perceived as pleasant, such as joy, interest or contentment, contrast with those perceived as unpleasant, like anxiety, sadness, anger, and despair.
Homo sapiens — Some define it as experiencing the feeling of positive emotional affects, while avoiding the negative ones.
Homo sapiens — Recent research suggests that being happy might involve experiencing some negative emotions when humans feel they are warranted.
Homo sapiens — For humans, sexuality involves biological, erotic, physical, emotional, social, or spiritual feelings and behaviors.
Homo sapiens — Because it is a broad term, which has varied with historical contexts over time, it lacks a precise definition.
Homo sapiens — The biological and physical aspects of sexuality largely concern the human reproductive functions, including the human sexual response cycle.
Homo sapiens — Sexuality also affects and is affected by cultural, political, legal, philosophical, moral, ethical, and religious aspects of life.
Homo sapiens — Sexual desire, or libido, is a basic mental state present at the beginning of sexual behavior.
Homo sapiens — Humans can fall anywhere along a continuous scale of sexual orientation, although most humans are heterosexual.
Homo sapiens — While homosexual behavior occurs in some other animals, only humans and domestic sheep have so far been found to exhibit exclusive preference for same-sex relationships.
Homo sapiens — Most evidence supports nonsocial, biological causes of sexual orientation, as cultures that are very tolerant of homosexuality do not have significantly higher rates of it.
Homo sapiens — Research in neuroscience and genetics suggests that other aspects of human sexuality are biologically influenced as well.
Homo sapiens — Love most commonly refers to a feeling of strong attraction or emotional attachment.
Homo sapiens — It can be impersonal (the love of an object, ideal, or strong political or spiritual connection) or interpersonal (love between humans).
Homo sapiens — When in love dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin and other chemicals stimulate the brain's pleasure center, leading to side effects such as increased heart rate, loss of appetite and sleep, and an intense feeling of excitement.
Homo sapiens — Humanity's unprecedented set of intellectual skills were a key factor in the species' eventual technological advancement and concomitant domination of the biosphere.
Homo sapiens — Disregarding extinct hominids, humans are the only animals known to teach generalizable information, innately deploy recursive embedding to generate and communicate complex concepts, engage in the "folk physics" required for competent tool design, or cook food in the wild.
Homo sapiens — Teaching and learning preserves the cultural and ethnographic identity of human societies.
Homo sapiens — Other traits and behaviors that are mostly unique to humans include starting fires, phoneme structuring and vocal learning.
Homo sapiens — While many species communicate, language is unique to humans, a defining feature of humanity, and a cultural universal.
Homo sapiens — Unlike the limited systems of other animals, human language is open – an infinite number of meanings can be produced by combining a limited number of symbols.
Homo sapiens — Human language also has the capacity of displacement, using words to represent things and happenings that are not presently or locally occurring but reside in the shared imagination of interlocutors.
Homo sapiens — Language differs from other forms of communication in that it is modality independent; the same meanings can be conveyed through different media, audibly in speech, visually by sign language or writing, and through tactile media such as braille.
Homo sapiens — Language is central to the communication between humans, and to the sense of identity that unites nations, cultures and ethnic groups.
Homo sapiens — There are approximately six thousand different languages currently in use, including sign languages, and many thousands more that are extinct.
Homo sapiens — === The arts === Human arts can take many forms including visual, literary, and performing.
Homo sapiens — Visual art can range from paintings and sculptures to film, fashion design, and architecture.
Homo sapiens — Other entities that have been described as having artistic qualities include food preparation, video games, and medicine.
Homo sapiens — As well as providing entertainment and transferring knowledge, the arts are also used for political purposes.
Homo sapiens — Art is a defining characteristic of humans and there is evidence for a relationship between creativity and language.
Homo sapiens — The earliest evidence of art was shell engravings made by Homo erectus 300,000 years before modern humans evolved.
Homo sapiens — Art attributed to H. sapiens existed at least 75,000 years ago, with jewellery and drawings found in caves in South Africa.
Homo sapiens — These include allowing them to better problem solve issues, providing a means to control or influence other humans, encouraging cooperation and contribution within a society or increasing the chance of attracting a potential mate.
Homo sapiens — The use of imagination developed through art, combined with logic may have given early humans an evolutionary advantage.
Homo sapiens — Evidence of humans engaging in musical activities predates cave art and so far music has been practiced by virtually all known human cultures.
Homo sapiens — There exists a wide variety of music genres and ethnic musics; with humans' musical abilities being related to other abilities, including complex social human behaviours.
Homo sapiens — It has been shown that human brains respond to music by becoming synchronized with the rhythm and beat, a process called entrainment.
Homo sapiens — Dance is also a form of human expression found in all cultures and may have evolved as a way to help early humans communicate.
Homo sapiens — Listening to music and observing dance stimulates the orbitofrontal cortex and other pleasure sensing areas of the brain.
Homo sapiens — Unlike speaking, reading and writing does not come naturally to humans and must be taught.
Homo sapiens — Still, literature has been present before the invention of words and language, with 30,000-year-old paintings on walls inside some caves portraying a series of dramatic scenes.
Homo sapiens — One of the oldest surviving works of literature is the Epic of Gilgamesh, first engraved on ancient Babylonian tablets about 4,000 years ago.
Homo sapiens — Beyond simply passing down knowledge, the use and sharing of imaginative fiction through stories might have helped develop humans' capabilities for communication and increased the likelihood of securing a mate.
Homo sapiens — Storytelling may also be used as a way to provide the audience with moral lessons and encourage cooperation.
Homo sapiens — The use and manufacture of tools has been put forward as the ability that defines humans more than anything else and has historically been seen as an important evolutionary step.
Homo sapiens — The technology became much more sophisticated about 1.8 million years ago, with the controlled use of fire beginning around 1 million years ago.
Homo sapiens — The wheel and wheeled vehicles appeared simultaneously in several regions some time in the fourth millennium BC.
Homo sapiens — The development of more complex tools and technologies allowed land to be cultivated and animals to be domesticated, thus proving essential in the development of agriculture – what is known as the Neolithic Revolution.
Homo sapiens — China developed paper, the printing press, gunpowder, the compass and other important inventions.
Homo sapiens — The continued improvements in smelting allowed forging of copper, bronze, iron and eventually steel, which is used in railways, skyscrapers and many other products.
Homo sapiens — This coincided with the Industrial Revolution, where the invention of automated machines brought major changes to humans' lifestyles.
Homo sapiens — Modern technology is observed as progressing exponentially, with major innovations in the 20th century including: electricity, penicillin, semiconductors, internal combustion engines, the Internet, nitrogen fixing fertilizers, airplanes, computers, automobiles, contraceptive pills, nuclear fission, the green revolution, radio, scientific plant breeding, rockets, air conditioning, television and the assembly line.
Homo sapiens — Definitions of religion vary; according to one definition, a religion is a belief system concerning the supernatural, sacred or divine, and practices, values, institutions and rituals associated with such belief.
Homo sapiens — The evolution and the history of the first religions have become areas of active scientific investigation.
Homo sapiens — Credible evidence of religious behaviour dates to the Middle Paleolithic era (45–200 thousand years ago).
Homo sapiens — It may have evolved to play a role in helping enforce and encourage cooperation between humans.
Homo sapiens — Religion can include a belief in life after death, the origin of life, the nature of the universe (religious cosmology) and its ultimate fate (eschatology), and moral or ethical teachings.
Homo sapiens — Views on transcendence and immanence vary substantially; traditions variously espouse monism, deism, pantheism, and theism (including polytheism and monotheism).
Homo sapiens — Although measuring religiosity is difficult, a majority of humans profess some variety of religious or spiritual belief.
Homo sapiens — As of 2015, about 16%, or slightly under 1.2 billion humans, were irreligious, including those with no religious beliefs or no identity with any religion.
Homo sapiens — An aspect unique to humans is their ability to transmit knowledge from one generation to the next and to continually build on this information to develop tools, scientific laws and other advances to pass on further.
Homo sapiens — This accumulated knowledge can be tested to answer questions or make predictions about how the universe functions and has been very successful in advancing human ascendancy.
Homo sapiens — Aristotle has been described as the first scientist, and preceded the rise of scientific thought through the Hellenistic period.
Homo sapiens — Other early advances in science came from the Han dynasty in China and during the Islamic Golden Age.
Homo sapiens — The scientific revolution, near the end of the Renaissance, led to the emergence of modern science.
Homo sapiens — A chain of events and influences led to the development of the scientific method, a process of observation and experimentation that is used to differentiate science from pseudoscience.
Homo sapiens — An understanding of mathematics is unique to humans, although other species of animals have some numerical cognition.
Homo sapiens — All of science can be divided into three major branches, the formal sciences (e.g., logic and mathematics), which are concerned with formal systems, the applied sciences (e.g., engineering, medicine), which are focused on practical applications, and the empirical sciences, which are based on empirical observation and are in turn divided into natural sciences (e.g., physics, chemistry, biology) and social sciences (e.g., psychology, economics, sociology).
Homo sapiens — Philosophy is a field of study where humans seek to understand fundamental truths about themselves and the world in which they live.
Homo sapiens — Philosophical inquiry has been a major feature in the development of humans' intellectual history.
Homo sapiens — It has been described as the "no man's land" between definitive scientific knowledge and dogmatic religious teachings.
Homo sapiens — Major fields of philosophy include metaphysics, epistemology, logic, and axiology (which includes ethics and aesthetics).
Homo sapiens — Society is the system of organizations and institutions arising from interaction between humans.
Homo sapiens — They can be divided into different groups according to their income, wealth, power, reputation and other factors.
Homo sapiens — The structure of social stratification and the degree of social mobility differs, especially between modern and traditional societies.
Homo sapiens — The first form of human social organization is thought to have resembled hunter-gatherer band societies.
Homo sapiens — Human societies typically exhibit gender identities and gender roles that distinguish between masculine and feminine characteristics and prescribe the range of acceptable behaviours and attitudes for their members based on their sex.
Homo sapiens — In some other societies, non-binary is used as an umbrella term for a range of gender identities that are not solely male or female.
Homo sapiens — Gender roles are often associated with a division of norms, practices, dress, behavior, rights, duties, privileges, status, and power, with men enjoying more rights and privileges than women in most societies, both today and in the past.
Homo sapiens — As a social construct, gender roles are not fixed and vary historically within a society.
Homo sapiens — Early modern humans probably had a range of gender roles similar to that of modern cultures from at least the Upper Paleolithic, while the Neanderthals were less sexually dimorphic and there is evidence that the behavioural difference between males and females was minimal.
Homo sapiens — All human societies organize, recognize and classify types of social relationships based on relations between parents, children and other descendants (consanguinity), and relations through marriage (affinity).
Homo sapiens — There is also a third type applied to godparents or adoptive children (fictive).
Homo sapiens — In many societies, it is one of the most important social organizing principles and plays a role in transmitting status and inheritance.
Homo sapiens — All societies have rules of incest taboo, according to which marriage between certain kinds of kin relations is prohibited, and some also have rules of preferential marriage with certain kin relations.
Homo sapiens — Pair bonding is a ubiquitous feature of human sexual relationships, whether it is manifested as serial monogamy, polygyny, or polyandry.
Homo sapiens — Genetic evidence indicates that humans were predominantly polygynous for most of their existence as a species, but that this began to shift during the Neolithic, when monogamy started becoming widespread concomitantly with the transition from nomadic to sedentary societies.
Homo sapiens — Anatomical evidence in the form of second-to-fourth digit ratios, a biomarker for prenatal androgen effects, likewise indicates modern humans were polygynous during the Pleistocene.
Homo sapiens — Human ethnic groups are a social category that identifies together as a group based on shared attributes that distinguish them from other groups.
Homo sapiens — These can be a common set of traditions, ancestry, language, history, society, culture, nation, religion, or social treatment within their residing area.
Homo sapiens — Ethnicity is separate from the concept of race, which is based on physical characteristics, although both are socially constructed.
Homo sapiens — Assigning ethnicity to a certain population is complicated, as even within common ethnic designations there can be a diverse range of subgroups, and the makeup of these ethnic groups can change over time at both the collective and individual level.
Homo sapiens — Also, there is no generally accepted definition of what constitutes an ethnic group.
Homo sapiens — Ethnic groupings can play a powerful role in the social identity and solidarity of ethnopolitical units.
Homo sapiens — This has been closely tied to the rise of the nation state as the predominant form of political organization in the 19th and 20th centuries.
Homo sapiens — As farming populations gathered in larger and denser communities, interactions between these different groups increased.
Homo sapiens — Humans have evolved the ability to change affiliation with various social groups relatively easily, including previously strong political alliances, if doing so is seen as providing personal advantages.
Homo sapiens — This cognitive flexibility allows individual humans to change their political ideologies, with those with higher flexibility less likely to support authoritarian and nationalistic stances.
Homo sapiens — There have been many forms of government throughout human history, each having various means of obtaining power and the ability to exert diverse controls on the population.
Homo sapiens — Approximately 47% of humans live in some form of a democracy, 17% in a hybrid regime, and 37% in an authoritarian regime.
Homo sapiens — Many countries belong to international organizations and alliances; the largest of these is the United Nations, with 193 member states.
Homo sapiens — Trade, the voluntary exchange of goods and services, is seen as a characteristic that differentiates humans from other animals and has been cited as a practice that gave Homo sapiens a major advantage over other hominids.
Homo sapiens — Evidence suggests early H. sapiens made use of long-distance trade routes to exchange goods and ideas, leading to cultural explosions and providing additional food sources when hunting was sparse, while such trade networks did not exist for the now extinct Neanderthals.
Homo sapiens — The first truly international trade routes were around the spice trade through the Roman and medieval periods.
Homo sapiens — Early human economies were more likely to be based around gift giving instead of a bartering system.
Homo sapiens — Early money consisted of commodities; the oldest being in the form of cattle and the most widely used being cowrie shells.
Homo sapiens — Money has since evolved into governmental issued coins, paper and electronic money.
Homo sapiens — Human study of economics is a social science that looks at how societies distribute scarce resources among different people.
Homo sapiens — There are massive inequalities in the division of wealth among humans; the eight richest humans are worth the same monetary value as the poorest half of all the human population.
Homo sapiens — Humans commit violence on other humans at a rate comparable to other primates, but have an increased preference for killing adults, infanticide being more common among other primates.
Homo sapiens — Phylogenetic analysis predicts that 2% of early H. sapiens would be murdered, rising to 12% during the medieval period, before dropping to below 2% in modern times.
Homo sapiens — There is great variation in violence between human populations, with rates of homicide about 0.01% in societies that have legal systems and strong cultural attitudes against violence.
Homo sapiens — The willingness of humans to kill other members of their species en masse through organized conflict (i.e., war) has long been the subject of debate.
Homo sapiens — One school of thought holds that war evolved as a means to eliminate competitors, and has always been an innate human characteristic.
Homo sapiens — Another suggests that war is a relatively recent phenomenon and has appeared due to changing social conditions.
Homo sapiens — While not settled, current evidence indicates warlike predispositions only became common about 10,000 years ago, and in many places much more recently than that.
Homo sapiens — War has had a high cost on human life; it is estimated that during the 20th century, between 167 million and 188 million people died as a result of war.
Homo sapiens — War casualty data is less reliable for pre-medieval times, especially global figures.
Homo sapiens — But compared with any period over the past 600 years, the last 80 years (post 1946) has seen a very significant drop in global military and civilian death rates due to armed conflict.
Human brain — The human brain is the central organ of the nervous system, and with the spinal cord, comprises the central nervous system.
Human brain — The brain controls most of the activities of the body, processing, integrating, and coordinating the information it receives from the sensory nervous system.
Human brain — The brain integrates sensory information and coordinates instructions sent to the rest of the body.
Human brain — The cerebrum, the largest part of the human brain, consists of two cerebral hemispheres.
Human brain — Each hemisphere has an inner core composed of white matter, and an outer surface – the cerebral cortex – composed of grey matter.
Human brain — The neocortex is made up of six neuronal layers, while the allocortex has three or four.
Human brain — Each hemisphere is divided into four lobes – the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes.
Human brain — The frontal lobe is associated with executive functions including self-control, planning, reasoning, and abstract thought, while the occipital lobe is dedicated to vision.
Human brain — Within each lobe, cortical areas are associated with specific functions, such as the sensory, motor, and association regions.
Human brain — Although the left and right hemispheres are broadly similar in shape and function, some functions are associated with one side, such as language in the left and visual-spatial ability in the right.
Human brain — The hemispheres are connected by commissural nerve tracts, the largest being the corpus callosum.
Human brain — The cerebellum is connected to the brainstem by three pairs of nerve tracts called cerebellar peduncles.
Human brain — Within the cerebrum is the ventricular system, consisting of four interconnected ventricles in which cerebrospinal fluid is produced and circulated.
Human brain — Underneath the cerebral cortex are several structures, including the thalamus, the epithalamus, the pineal gland, the hypothalamus, the pituitary gland, and the subthalamus; the limbic structures, including the amygdalae and the hippocampi, the claustrum, the various nuclei of the basal ganglia, the basal forebrain structures, and three circumventricular organs.
Human brain — Brain structures that are not on the midplane exist in pairs; for example, there are two hippocampi and two amygdalae.
Human brain — There are more than 86 billion neurons in the brain, and a more or less equal number of other cells.
Human brain — Brain activity is made possible by the interconnections of neurons and their release of neurotransmitters in response to nerve impulses.
Human brain — Neurons connect to form neural pathways, neural circuits, and elaborate network systems.
Human brain — The brain is protected by the skull, suspended in cerebrospinal fluid, and isolated from the bloodstream by the blood–brain barrier.
Human brain — The brain is susceptible to degenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, dementias including Alzheimer's disease, and multiple sclerosis.
Human brain — Psychiatric conditions, including schizophrenia and clinical depression, are thought to be associated with brain dysfunctions.
Human brain — The brain can also be the site of tumours, both benign and malignant; these mostly originate from other sites in the body.
Human brain — The study of the anatomy of the brain is neuroanatomy, while the study of its function is neuroscience.
Human brain — Specimens from other animals, which may be examined microscopically, have traditionally provided much information.
Human brain — Medical imaging technologies such as functional neuroimaging, and electroencephalography (EEG) recordings are important in studying the brain.
Human brain — The medical history of people with brain injury has provided insight into the function of each part of the brain.
Human brain — In culture, the philosophy of mind has for centuries attempted to address the question of the nature of consciousness and the mind–body problem.
Human brain — The pseudoscience of phrenology attempted to localise personality attributes to regions of the cortex in the 19th century.
Human brain — In science fiction, brain transplants are imagined in tales such as the 1942 Donovan's Brain.
Human brain — The adult human brain weighs on average about 1.2–1.4 kg (2.6–3.1 lb) which is about 2% of the total body weight, with a volume of around 1260 cm3 in men and 1130 cm3 in women.
Human brain — There is substantial individual variation, with the standard reference range for men being 1,180–1,620 g (2.60–3.57 lb) and for women 1,030–1,400 g (2.27–3.09 lb).
Human brain — The cerebrum, consisting of the cerebral hemispheres, forms the largest part of the brain and overlies the other brain structures.
Human brain — The outer region of the hemispheres, the cerebral cortex, is grey matter, consisting of cortical layers of neurons.
Human brain — Each hemisphere is divided into four main lobes – the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, temporal lobe, and occipital lobe.
Human brain — Three other lobes are included by some sources which are a central lobe, a limbic lobe, and an insular lobe.
Human brain — The central lobe comprises the precentral gyrus and the postcentral gyrus and is included since it forms a distinct functional role.
Human brain — The brainstem, resembling a stalk, attaches to and leaves the cerebrum at the start of the midbrain area.
Human brain — The cerebrum, brainstem, cerebellum, and spinal cord are covered by three membranes called meninges.
Human brain — The membranes are the tough dura mater; the middle arachnoid mater and the more delicate inner pia mater.
Human brain — Between the arachnoid mater and the pia mater is the subarachnoid space and subarachnoid cisterns, which contain the cerebrospinal fluid.
Human brain — The outermost membrane of the cerebral cortex is the basement membrane of the pia mater called the glia limitans and is an important part of the blood–brain barrier.
Human brain — In 2023 a fourth meningeal membrane has been proposed known as the subarachnoid lymphatic-like membrane.
Human brain — The living brain is very soft, having a gel-like consistency similar to soft tofu.
Human brain — The cortical layers of neurons constitute much of the cerebral grey matter, while the deeper subcortical regions of myelinated axons, make up the white matter.
Human brain — The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain and is divided into nearly symmetrical left and right hemispheres by a deep groove, the longitudinal fissure.
Human brain — The hemispheres are connected by five commissures that span the longitudinal fissure, the largest of these is the corpus callosum.
Human brain — Each hemisphere is conventionally divided into four main lobes; the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, temporal lobe, and occipital lobe, named according to the skull bones that overlie them.
Human brain — Each lobe is associated with one or two specialised functions though there is some functional overlap between them.
Human brain — The surface of the brain is folded into ridges (gyri) and grooves (sulci), many of which are named, usually according to their position, such as the frontal gyrus of the frontal lobe or the central sulcus separating the central regions of the hemispheres.
Human brain — The outer part of the cerebrum is the cerebral cortex, made up of grey matter arranged in layers.
Human brain — It is 2 to 4 millimetres (0.079 to 0.157 in) thick, and deeply folded to give a convoluted appearance.
Human brain — The largest part of the cerebral cortex is the neocortex, which has six neuronal layers.
Human brain — The cortex is mapped by divisions into about fifty different functional areas known as Brodmann's areas.
Human brain — The cortex is divided into two main functional areas – a motor cortex and a sensory cortex.
Human brain — The primary motor cortex, which sends axons down to motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord, occupies the rear portion of the frontal lobe, directly in front of the somatosensory area.
Human brain — The primary sensory areas receive signals from the sensory nerves and tracts by way of relay nuclei in the thalamus.
Human brain — Primary sensory areas include the visual cortex of the occipital lobe, the auditory cortex in parts of the temporal lobe and insular cortex, and the somatosensory cortex in the parietal lobe.
Human brain — These areas receive input from the sensory areas and lower parts of the brain and are involved in the complex cognitive processes of perception, thought, and decision-making.
Human brain — The main functions of the frontal lobe are to control attention, abstract thinking, behaviour, problem-solving tasks, and physical reactions and personality.
Human brain — The occipital lobe is the smallest lobe; its main functions are visual reception, visual-spatial processing, movement, and colour recognition.
Human brain — The temporal lobe controls auditory and visual memories, language, and some hearing and speech.
Human brain — The cerebrum contains the ventricles where the cerebrospinal fluid is produced and circulated.
Human brain — Below the corpus callosum is the septum pellucidum, a membrane that separates the lateral ventricles.
Human brain — Beneath the lateral ventricles is the thalamus and to the front and below is the hypothalamus.
Human brain — The basal ganglia, also called basal nuclei, are a set of structures deep within the hemispheres involved in behaviour and movement regulation.
Human brain — The largest component is the striatum, others are the globus pallidus, the substantia nigra and the subthalamic nucleus.
Human brain — The striatum is divided into a ventral striatum, and dorsal striatum, subdivisions that are based upon function and connections.
Human brain — The ventral striatum consists of the nucleus accumbens and the olfactory tubercle whereas the dorsal striatum consists of the caudate nucleus and the putamen.
Human brain — The putamen and the globus pallidus lie separated from the lateral ventricles and thalamus by the internal capsule, whereas the caudate nucleus stretches around and abuts the lateral ventricles on their outer sides.
Human brain — At the deepest part of the lateral sulcus between the insular cortex and the striatum is a thin neuronal sheet called the claustrum.
Human brain — These include the nucleus basalis, diagonal band of Broca, substantia innominata, and the medial septal nucleus.
Human brain — These structures are important in producing the neurotransmitter, acetylcholine, which is then distributed widely throughout the brain.
Human brain — The basal forebrain, in particular the nucleus basalis, is considered to be the major cholinergic output of the central nervous system to the striatum and neocortex.
Human brain — The cerebellum is divided into an anterior lobe, a posterior lobe, and the flocculonodular lobe.
Human brain — Compared to the cerebral cortex, the cerebellum has a much thinner outer cortex that is narrowly furrowed into numerous curved transverse fissures.
Human brain — Viewed from underneath between the two lobes is the third lobe the flocculonodular lobe.
Human brain — The cerebellum rests at the back of the cranial cavity, lying beneath the occipital lobes, and is separated from these by the cerebellar tentorium, a sheet of fibre.
Human brain — It is connected to the brainstem by three pairs of nerve tracts called cerebellar peduncles.
Human brain — The superior pair connects to the midbrain; the middle pair connects to the medulla, and the inferior pair connects to the pons.
Human brain — The cerebellum consists of an inner medulla of white matter and an outer cortex of richly folded grey matter.
Human brain — The cerebellum's anterior and posterior lobes appear to play a role in the coordination and smoothing of complex motor movements, and the flocculonodular lobe in the maintenance of balance although debate exists as to its cognitive, behavioural and motor functions.
Human brain — The brainstem lies beneath the cerebrum and consists of the midbrain, pons and medulla.
Human brain — It lies in the back part of the skull, resting on the part of the base known as the clivus, and ends at the foramen magnum, a large opening in the occipital bone.
Human brain — The brainstem continues below this as the spinal cord, protected by the vertebral column.
Human brain — The brainstem also contains many cranial nerve nuclei and nuclei of peripheral nerves, as well as nuclei involved in the regulation of many essential processes including breathing, control of eye movements and balance.
Human brain — The reticular formation, a network of nuclei of ill-defined formation, is present within and along the length of the brainstem.
Human brain — Many nerve tracts, which transmit information to and from the cerebral cortex to the rest of the body, pass through the brainstem.
Human brain — === Microanatomy === The human brain is primarily composed of neurons, glial cells, neural stem cells, and blood vessels.
Human brain — Types of neuron include interneurons, pyramidal cells including Betz cells, motor neurons (upper and lower motor neurons), and cerebellar Purkinje cells.
Human brain — The adult human brain is estimated to contain 86±8 billion neurons, with a roughly equal number (85±10 billion) of non-neuronal cells.
Human brain — Out of these neurons, 16 billion (19%) are located in the cerebral cortex, and 69 billion (80%) are in the cerebellum.
Human brain — Types of glial cell are astrocytes (including Bergmann glia), oligodendrocytes, ependymal cells (including tanycytes), radial glial cells, microglia, and a subtype of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells.
Human brain — The glia limitans of the cortex is made up of astrocyte endfeet processes that serve in part to contain the cells of the brain.
Human brain — Mast cells are white blood cells that interact in the neuroimmune system in the brain.
Human brain — Mast cells in the central nervous system are present in a number of structures including the meninges; they mediate neuroimmune responses in inflammatory conditions and help to maintain the blood–brain barrier, particularly in brain regions where the barrier is absent.
Human brain — Mast cells serve the same general functions in the body and central nervous system, such as effecting or regulating allergic responses, innate and adaptive immunity, autoimmunity, and inflammation.
Human brain — Mast cells serve as the main effector cell through which pathogens can affect the biochemical signaling that takes place between the gastrointestinal tract and the central nervous system.
Human brain — In all neurons, ELAVL3 is expressed, and in pyramidal cells, NRGN and REEP2 are also expressed.
Human brain — GAD1 – essential for the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter GABA – is expressed in interneurons.
Human brain — Proteins expressed in glial cells include astrocyte markers GFAP and S100B whereas myelin basic protein and the transcription factor OLIG2 are expressed in oligodendrocytes.
Human brain — Cerebrospinal fluid is a clear, colourless transcellular fluid that circulates around the brain in the subarachnoid space, in the ventricular system, and in the central canal of the spinal cord.
Human brain — It also fills some gaps in the subarachnoid space, known as subarachnoid cisterns.
Human brain — The four ventricles, two lateral, a third, and a fourth ventricle, all contain a choroid plexus that produces cerebrospinal fluid.
Human brain — The third ventricle lies in the midline and is connected to the lateral ventricles.
Human brain — A single duct, the cerebral aqueduct between the pons and the cerebellum, connects the third ventricle to the fourth ventricle.
Human brain — Three separate openings, the middle and two lateral apertures, drain the cerebrospinal fluid from the fourth ventricle to the cisterna magna, one of the major cisterns.
Human brain — From here, cerebrospinal fluid circulates around the brain and spinal cord in the subarachnoid space, between the arachnoid mater and pia mater.
Human brain — At any one time, there is about 150mL of cerebrospinal fluid – most within the subarachnoid space.
Human brain — It is constantly being regenerated and absorbed, and is replaced about once every 5–6 hours.
Human brain — A glymphatic system has been described as the lymphatic drainage system of the brain.
Human brain — The brain-wide glymphatic pathway includes drainage routes from the cerebrospinal fluid, and from the meningeal lymphatic vessels that are associated with the dural sinuses, and run alongside the cerebral blood vessels.
Human brain — The internal carotid arteries supply oxygenated blood to the front of the brain and the vertebral arteries supply blood to the back of the brain.
Human brain — These two circulations join in the circle of Willis, a ring of connected arteries that lies in the interpeduncular cistern between the midbrain and pons.
Human brain — They enter the cranium through the carotid canal, travel through the cavernous sinus and enter the subarachnoid space.
Human brain — They then enter the circle of Willis, with two branches, the anterior cerebral arteries emerging.
Human brain — These branches travel forward and then upward along the longitudinal fissure, and supply the front and midline parts of the brain.
Human brain — One or more small anterior communicating arteries join the two anterior cerebral arteries shortly after they emerge as branches.
Human brain — They travel sideways along the sphenoid bone of the eye socket, then upwards through the insula cortex, where final branches arise.
Human brain — The vertebral arteries emerge as branches of the left and right subclavian arteries.
Human brain — They travel upward through transverse foramina which are spaces in the cervical vertebrae.
Human brain — Each side enters the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum along the corresponding side of the medulla.
Human brain — The vertebral arteries join in front of the middle part of the medulla to form the larger basilar artery, which sends multiple branches to supply the medulla and pons, and the two other anterior and superior cerebellar branches.
Human brain — These travel outwards, around the superior cerebellar peduncles, and along the top of the cerebellar tentorium, where it sends branches to supply the temporal and occipital lobes.
Human brain — Each posterior cerebral artery sends a small posterior communicating artery to join with the internal carotid arteries.
Human brain — ==== Blood drainage ==== Cerebral veins drain deoxygenated blood from the brain.
Human brain — The brain has two main networks of veins: an exterior or superficial network, on the surface of the cerebrum that has three branches, and an interior network.
Human brain — The veins of the brain drain into larger cavities of the dural venous sinuses usually situated between the dura mater and the covering of the skull.
Human brain — Blood from the medulla and pons of the brainstem have a variable pattern of drainage, either into the spinal veins or into adjacent cerebral veins.
Human brain — The blood in the deep part of the brain drains, through a venous plexus into the cavernous sinus at the front, and the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses at the sides, and the inferior sagittal sinus at the back.
Human brain — Blood drains from the outer brain into the large superior sagittal sinus, which rests in the midline on top of the brain.
Human brain — Blood from here joins with blood from the straight sinus at the confluence of sinuses.
Human brain — These then drain into the sigmoid sinuses, which receive blood from the cavernous sinus and superior and inferior petrosal sinuses.
Human brain — ==== The blood–brain barrier ==== The larger arteries throughout the brain supply blood to smaller capillaries.
Human brain — These smallest of blood vessels in the brain, are lined with cells joined by tight junctions and so fluids do not seep in or leak out to the same degree as they do in other capillaries; this creates the blood–brain barrier.
Human brain — The barrier is less permeable to larger molecules, but is still permeable to water, carbon dioxide, oxygen, and most fat-soluble substances (including anaesthetics and alcohol).
Human brain — The blood-brain barrier is not present in the circumventricular organs—which are structures in the brain that may need to respond to changes in body fluids—such as the pineal gland, area postrema, and some areas of the hypothalamus.
Human brain — There is a similar blood–cerebrospinal fluid barrier, which serves the same purpose as the blood–brain barrier, but facilitates the transport of different substances into the brain due to the distinct structural characteristics between the two barrier systems.
Human brain — At the beginning of the third week of development, the embryonic ectoderm forms a thickened strip called the neural plate.
Human brain — By the fourth week of development the neural plate has widened to give a broad cephalic end, a less broad middle part and a narrow caudal end.
Human brain — These swellings are known as the primary brain vesicles and represent the beginnings of the forebrain (prosencephalon), midbrain (mesencephalon), and hindbrain (rhombencephalon).
Human brain — Neural crest cells (derived from the ectoderm) populate the lateral edges of the plate at the neural folds.
Human brain — In the fourth week—during the neurulation stage—the neural folds close to form the neural tube, bringing together the neural crest cells at the neural crest.
Human brain — The neural crest runs the length of the tube with cranial neural crest cells at the cephalic end and caudal neural crest cells at the tail.
Human brain — Cells detach from the crest and migrate in a craniocaudal (head to tail) wave inside the tube.
Human brain — Cells at the cephalic end give rise to the brain, and cells at the caudal end give rise to the spinal cord.
Human brain — The tube flexes as it grows, forming the crescent-shaped cerebral hemispheres at the head.
Human brain — Early in the fourth week, the cephalic part bends sharply forward in a cephalic flexure.
Human brain — This flexed part becomes the forebrain (prosencephalon); the adjoining curving part becomes the midbrain (mesencephalon) and the part caudal to the flexure becomes the hindbrain (rhombencephalon).
Human brain — The forebrain separates into two vesicles – an anterior telencephalon and a posterior diencephalon.
Human brain — The telencephalon gives rise to the cerebral cortex, basal ganglia, and related structures.
Human brain — The hindbrain also splits into two areas – the metencephalon and the myelencephalon.
Human brain — Also during the fifth week, the brain divides into repeating segments called neuromeres.
Human brain — By the gestational age of 24 weeks, the wrinkled morphology showing the fissures that begin to mark out the lobes of the brain is evident.
Human brain — Why the cortex wrinkles and folds is not well-understood, but gyrification has been linked to intelligence and neurological disorders, and a number of gyrification theories have been proposed.
Human brain — These theories include those based on mechanical buckling, axonal tension, and differential tangential expansion.
Human brain — What is clear is that gyrification is not a random process, but rather a complex developmentally predetermined process which generates patterns of folds that are consistent between individuals and most species.
Human brain — The expanding caudal end of the hemisphere has to curve over in a forward direction to fit into the restricted space.
Human brain — This covers the fossa and turns it into a much deeper ridge known as the lateral sulcus and this marks out the temporal lobe.
Human brain — By the sixth month other sulci have formed that demarcate the frontal, parietal, and occipital lobes.
Human brain — A gene present in the human genome (ARHGAP11B) may play a major role in gyrification and encephalisation.
Human brain — === Motor control === The frontal lobe is involved in reasoning, motor control, emotion, and language.
Human brain — It contains the motor cortex, which is involved in planning and coordinating movement; the prefrontal cortex, which is responsible for higher-level cognitive functioning; and Broca's area, which is essential for language production.
Human brain — The motor system of the brain is responsible for the generation and control of movement.
Human brain — Generated movements pass from the brain through nerves to motor neurons in the body, which control the action of muscles.
Human brain — The corticospinal tract carries movements from the brain, through the spinal cord, to the torso and limbs.
Human brain — Gross movement – such as locomotion and the movement of arms and legs – is generated in the motor cortex, divided into three parts: the primary motor cortex, found in the precentral gyrus and has sections dedicated to the movement of different body parts.
Human brain — These movements are supported and regulated by two other areas, lying anterior to the primary motor cortex: the premotor area and the supplementary motor area.
Human brain — The hands and mouth have a much larger area dedicated to them than other body parts, allowing finer movement; this has been visualised in a motor homunculus.
Human brain — Impulses generated from the motor cortex travel along the corticospinal tract along the front of the medulla and cross over (decussate) at the medullary pyramids.
Human brain — These then travel down the spinal cord, with most connecting to interneurons, in turn connecting to lower motor neurons within the grey matter that then transmit the impulse to move to muscles themselves.
Human brain — The cerebellum and basal ganglia, play a role in fine, complex and coordinated muscle movements.
Human brain — Connections between the cortex and the basal ganglia control muscle tone, posture and movement initiation, and are referred to as the extrapyramidal system.
Human brain — The sensory nervous system is involved with the reception and processing of sensory information.
Human brain — This information is received through the cranial nerves, through tracts in the spinal cord, and directly at centres of the brain exposed to the blood.
Human brain — The brain also receives and interprets information from the special senses of vision, smell, hearing, and taste.
Human brain — From the skin, the brain receives information about fine touch, pressure, pain, vibration and temperature.
Human brain — The sensory cortex is found just near the motor cortex, and, like the motor cortex, has areas related to sensation from different body parts.
Human brain — Sensation collected by a sensory receptor on the skin is changed to a nerve signal, that is passed up a series of neurons through tracts in the spinal cord.
Human brain — The dorsal column–medial lemniscus pathway contains information about fine touch, vibration and position of joints.
Human brain — The pathway fibres travel up the back part of the spinal cord to the back part of the medulla, where they connect with second-order neurons that immediately send fibres across the midline.
Human brain — These fibres then travel upwards into the ventrobasal complex in the thalamus where they connect with third-order neurons which send fibres up to the sensory cortex.
Human brain — The spinothalamic tract carries information about pain, temperature, and gross touch.
Human brain — The pathway fibres travel up the spinal cord and connect with second-order neurons in the reticular formation of the brainstem for pain and temperature, and also terminate at the ventrobasal complex of the thalamus for gross touch.
Human brain — Photoreceptors in the retina transduce the sensory stimulus of light into an electrical nerve signal that is sent to the visual cortex in the occipital lobe.
Human brain — The arrangements of the eyes' optics cause light from the left visual field to be received by the rightmost portion of each retina, and vice versa.
Human brain — This arrangement ultimately means that a portion of each retina is processed by each hemisphere of the cortex, such that both the right and left visual cortex process information from both eyes.
Human brain — Optic nerve fibres from the retinas' nasal halves cross to the opposite sides joining the fibres from the temporal halves of the opposite retinas, which do not cross, forming the optic tracts.
Human brain — The optic tract fibres reach the brain at the lateral geniculate nucleus, and travel through the optic radiation to reach the visual cortex.
Human brain — Sound results in vibrations of the ossicles which continue finally to the hearing organ, and change in balance results in movement of liquids within the inner ear.
Human brain — From here, it passes through to the cochlear nuclei, the superior olivary nucleus, the medial geniculate nucleus, and finally the auditory radiation to the auditory cortex.
Human brain — The sense of smell is generated by receptor cells in the epithelium of the olfactory mucosa in the nasal cavity.
Human brain — This information passes via the olfactory nerve which goes into the skull through a relatively permeable part.
Human brain — This nerve transmits to the neural circuitry of the olfactory bulb from where information is passed to the olfactory cortex.
Human brain — Taste is generated from receptors on the tongue and passed along the facial and glossopharyngeal nerves into the solitary nucleus in the brainstem.
Human brain — Some taste information is also passed from the pharynx into this area via the vagus nerve.
Human brain — Information is then passed from here through the thalamus into the gustatory cortex.
Human brain — === Regulation === Autonomic functions of the brain include the regulation, or rhythmic control of the heart rate and rate of breathing, and maintaining homeostasis.
Human brain — Blood pressure and heart rate are influenced by the vasomotor centre of the medulla, which causes arteries and veins to be somewhat constricted at rest.
Human brain — It does this by influencing the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems via the vagus nerve.
Human brain — Information about blood pressure is generated by baroreceptors in aortic bodies in the aortic arch, and passed to the brain along the afferent fibres of the vagus nerve.
Human brain — Information about the pressure changes in the carotid sinus comes from carotid bodies located near the carotid artery and this is passed via a nerve joining with the glossopharyngeal nerve.
Human brain — Signals from here influence the vasomotor centre to adjust vein and artery constriction accordingly.
Human brain — The brain controls the rate of breathing, mainly by respiratory centres in the medulla and pons.
Human brain — The respiratory centres control respiration, by generating motor signals that are passed down the spinal cord, along the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm and other muscles of respiration.
Human brain — There are four respiratory centres, three with a more clearly defined function, and an apneustic centre with a less clear function.
Human brain — In the medulla a dorsal respiratory group causes the desire to breathe in and receives sensory information directly from the body.
Human brain — Also in the medulla, the ventral respiratory group influences breathing out during exertion.
Human brain — In the pons the pneumotaxic centre influences the duration of each breath, and the apneustic centre seems to have an influence on inhalation.
Human brain — Information about blood oxygen, carbon dioxide and pH levels are also sensed on the walls of arteries in the peripheral chemoreceptors of the aortic and carotid bodies.
Human brain — This information is passed via the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves to the respiratory centres.
Human brain — High carbon dioxide, an acidic pH, or low oxygen stimulate the respiratory centres.
Human brain — The desire to breathe in is also affected by pulmonary stretch receptors in the lungs which, when activated, prevent the lungs from overinflating by transmitting information to the respiratory centres via the vagus nerve.
Human brain — The hypothalamus in the diencephalon, is involved in regulating many functions of the body.
Human brain — Functions include neuroendocrine regulation, regulation of the circadian rhythm, control of the autonomic nervous system, and the regulation of fluid, and food intake.
Human brain — The anterior hypothalamus includes the suprachiasmatic nucleus and the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus which through gene expression cycles, generates a roughly 24 hour circadian clock.
Human brain — Sleep is an essential requirement for the body and brain and allows the closing down and resting of the body's systems.
Human brain — There are also findings that suggest that the daily build-up of toxins in the brain are removed during sleep.
Human brain — Sleep necessarily reduces this use and gives time for the restoration of energy-giving ATP.
Human brain — The lateral hypothalamus contains orexinergic neurons that control appetite and arousal through their projections to the ascending reticular activating system.
Human brain — The hypothalamus controls the pituitary gland through the release of peptides such as oxytocin, and vasopressin, as well as dopamine into the median eminence.
Human brain — Through the autonomic projections, the hypothalamus is involved in regulating functions such as blood pressure, heart rate, breathing, sweating, and other homeostatic mechanisms.
Human brain — The hypothalamus also plays a role in thermal regulation, and when stimulated by the immune system, is capable of generating a fever.
Human brain — The hypothalamus is influenced by the kidneys: when blood pressure falls, the renin released by the kidneys stimulates a need to drink.
Human brain — The hypothalamus also regulates food intake through autonomic signals, and hormone release by the digestive system.
Human brain — While language functions were traditionally thought to be localised to Wernicke's area and Broca's area, it is now mostly accepted that a wider network of cortical regions contributes to language functions.
Human brain — The study on how language is represented, processed, and acquired by the brain is called neurolinguistics, which is a large multidisciplinary field drawing from cognitive neuroscience, cognitive linguistics, and psycholinguistics.
Human brain — The cerebrum has a contralateral organisation with each hemisphere of the brain interacting primarily with one half of the body: the left side of the brain interacts with the right side of the body, and vice versa.
Human brain — Motor connections from the brain to the spinal cord, and sensory connections from the spinal cord to the brain, both cross sides in the brainstem.
Human brain — Visual input follows a more complex rule: the optic nerves from the two eyes come together at a point called the optic chiasm, and half of the fibres from each nerve split off to join the other.
Human brain — The result is that connections from the left half of the retina, in both eyes, go to the left side of the brain, whereas connections from the right half of the retina go to the right side of the brain.
Human brain — Because each half of the retina receives light coming from the opposite half of the visual field, the functional consequence is that visual input from the left side of the world goes to the right side of the brain, and vice versa.
Human brain — Thus, the right side of the brain receives somatosensory input from the left side of the body, and visual input from the left side of the visual field.
Human brain — The left and right sides of the brain appear symmetrical, but they function asymmetrically.
Human brain — For example, the counterpart of the left-hemisphere motor area controlling the right hand is the right-hemisphere area controlling the left hand.
Human brain — There are, however, several important exceptions, involving language and spatial cognition.
Human brain — If a key language area in the left hemisphere is damaged, it can leave the victim unable to speak or understand, whereas equivalent damage to the right hemisphere would cause only minor impairment to language skills.
Human brain — A substantial part of current understanding of the interactions between the two hemispheres has come from the study of "split-brain patients"—people who underwent surgical transection of the corpus callosum in an attempt to reduce the severity of epileptic seizures.
Human brain — These patients do not show unusual behaviour that is immediately obvious, but in some cases can behave almost like two different people in the same body, with the right hand taking an action and then the left hand undoing it.
Human brain — These patients, when briefly shown a picture on the right side of the point of visual fixation, are able to describe it verbally, but when the picture is shown on the left, are unable to describe it, but may be able to give an indication with the left hand of the nature of the object shown.
Human brain — Emotions are generally defined as two-step multicomponent processes involving elicitation, followed by psychological feelings, appraisal, expression, autonomic responses, and action tendencies.
Human brain — Attempts to localise basic emotions to certain brain regions have been controversial; some research found no evidence for specific locations corresponding to emotions, but instead found circuitry involved in general emotional processes.
Human brain — The amygdala, orbitofrontal cortex, mid and anterior insular cortex and lateral prefrontal cortex, appeared to be involved in generating the emotions, while weaker evidence was found for the ventral tegmental area, ventral pallidum and nucleus accumbens in incentive salience.
Human brain — Others, however, have found evidence of activation of specific regions, such as the basal ganglia in happiness, the subcallosal cingulate cortex in sadness, and amygdala in fear.
Human brain — === Cognition === The brain is responsible for cognition, which functions through numerous processes and executive functions.
Human brain — Executive functions include the ability to filter information and tune out irrelevant stimuli with attentional control and cognitive inhibition, the ability to process and manipulate information held in working memory, the ability to think about multiple concepts simultaneously and switch tasks with cognitive flexibility, the ability to inhibit impulses and prepotent responses with inhibitory control, and the ability to determine the relevance of information or appropriateness of an action.
Human brain — Higher order executive functions require the simultaneous use of multiple basic executive functions, and include planning, prospection and fluid intelligence (i.e., reasoning and problem solving).
Human brain — The prefrontal cortex plays a significant role in mediating executive functions.
Human brain — Planning involves activation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), anterior cingulate cortex, angular prefrontal cortex, right prefrontal cortex, and supramarginal gyrus.
Human brain — Working memory manipulation involves the DLPFC, inferior frontal gyrus, and areas of the parietal cortex.
Human brain — Inhibitory control involves multiple areas of the prefrontal cortex, as well as the caudate nucleus and subthalamic nucleus.
Human brain — Brain activity is made possible by the interconnections of neurons that are linked together to reach their targets.
Human brain — Dendrites are often extensive branches that receive information in the form of signals from the axon terminals of other neurons.
Human brain — The signals received may cause the neuron to initiate an action potential (an electrochemical signal or nerve impulse) which is sent along its axon to the axon terminal, to connect with the dendrites or with the cell body of another neuron.
Human brain — An action potential is initiated at the initial segment of an axon, which contains a specialised complex of proteins.
Human brain — When an action potential reaches the axon terminal it triggers the release of a neurotransmitter at a synapse that propagates a signal that acts on the target cell.
Human brain — These chemical neurotransmitters include dopamine, serotonin, GABA, glutamate, and acetylcholine.
Human brain — GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain, and glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter.
Human brain — Neurons link at synapses to form neural pathways, neural circuits, and large elaborate network systems such as the salience network and the default mode network, and the activity between them is driven by the process of neurotransmission.
Human brain — The brain consumes up to 20% of the energy used by the human body, more than any other organ.
Human brain — In humans, blood glucose is the primary source of energy for most cells and is critical for normal function in a number of tissues, including the brain.
Human brain — The human brain consumes approximately 60% of blood glucose in fasted, sedentary individuals.
Human brain — Brain metabolism normally relies upon blood glucose as an energy source, but during times of low glucose (such as fasting, endurance exercise, or limited carbohydrate intake), the brain uses ketone bodies for fuel with a smaller need for glucose.
Human brain — The brain stores glucose in the form of glycogen, albeit in significantly smaller amounts than that found in the liver or skeletal muscle.
Human brain — Long-chain fatty acids cannot cross the blood–brain barrier, but the liver can break these down to produce ketone bodies.
Human brain — However, short-chain fatty acids (e.g., butyric acid, propionic acid, and acetic acid) and the medium-chain fatty acids, octanoic acid and heptanoic acid, can cross the blood–brain barrier and be metabolised by brain cells.
Human brain — Although the human brain represents only 2% of the body weight, it receives 15% of the cardiac output, 20% of total body oxygen consumption, and 25% of total body glucose utilization.
Human brain — The brain mostly uses glucose for energy, and deprivation of glucose, as can happen in hypoglycemia, can result in loss of consciousness.
Human brain — The energy consumption of the brain does not vary greatly over time, but active regions of the cortex consume somewhat more energy than inactive regions, which forms the basis for the functional neuroimaging methods of PET and fMRI.
Human brain — A preliminary study showed that brain metabolic requirements in humans peak at about five years old.
Human brain — The function of sleep is not fully understood; however, there is evidence that sleep enhances the clearance of metabolic waste products, some of which are potentially neurotoxic, from the brain and may also permit repair.
Human brain — Evidence suggests that the increased clearance of metabolic waste during sleep occurs via increased functioning of the glymphatic system.
Human brain — Sleep may also have an effect on cognitive function by weakening unnecessary connections.
Human brain — The functions of the brain depend on adequate sentience, where the ability of neurons to transmit electrochemical signals to other cells and their ability to respond appropriately to electrochemical signals received from other cells, are the proper response to specific input stimuli through the sensory system.
Human brain — Beginning from basic patterns of stimulus-response coordination, the human capacity to appropriately detect changes within themselves and their environments depends on the specific nervous system architecture.
Human brain — The balanced nervous system with required functions is a result of a significant developmental journey during gestation.
Human brain — According to the influential view in cognitive sciences, the mother-fetus interaction enables the child's nervous system to grow with adequate biological sentience.
Human brain — This physical interaction within the so-called mother-fetus neurocognitive model forms the specific architecture of the child's nervous system and contributes to developing adequate biological sentience and the beginning of cognition.
Human brain — The most powerful physical forces of this interaction are the low-frequency pulsed electromagnetic field and complex acoustic wave of the mother's heart.
Human brain — Neuroscientists, along with researchers from allied disciplines, study how the human brain works.
Human brain — The boundaries between the specialties of neuroscience, neurology and other disciplines such as psychiatry have faded as they are all influenced by basic research in neuroscience.
Human brain — The "Decade of the Brain", an initiative of the United States Government in the 1990s, is considered to have marked much of this increase in research, and was followed in 2013 by the BRAIN Initiative.
Human brain — The Human Connectome Project was a five-year study launched in 2009 to analyse the anatomical and functional connections of parts of the brain, and has provided much data.
Human brain — === Methods === Information about the structure and function of the human brain comes from a variety of experimental methods, including animals and humans.
Human brain — Information about brain trauma and stroke has provided information about the function of parts of the brain and the effects of brain damage.
Human brain — Electrophysiology is used to measure, record and monitor the electrical activity of the cortex.
Human brain — Measurements may be of local field potentials of cortical areas, or of the activity of a single neuron.
Human brain — An electroencephalogram can record the electrical activity of the cortex using electrodes placed non-invasively on the scalp.
Human brain — Invasive measures include electrocorticography, which uses electrodes placed directly on the exposed surface of the brain.
Human brain — This method is used in cortical stimulation mapping, used in the study of the relationship between cortical areas and their systemic function.
Human brain — By using much smaller microelectrodes, single-unit recordings can be made from a single neuron that give a high spatial resolution and high temporal resolution.
Human brain — This has enabled the linking of brain activity to behaviour, and the creation of neuronal maps.
Human brain — The development of cerebral organoids has opened ways for studying the growth of the brain, and of the cortex, and for understanding disease development, offering further implications for therapeutic applications.
Human brain — Functional neuroimaging techniques show changes in brain activity that relate to the function of specific brain areas.
Human brain — One technique is functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) which has the advantages over earlier methods of SPECT and PET of not needing the use of radioactive materials and of offering a higher resolution.
Human brain — These methods rely on the haemodynamic response that shows changes in brain activity in relation to changes in blood flow, useful in mapping functions to brain areas.
Human brain — Resting state fMRI looks at the interaction of brain regions whilst the brain is not performing a specific task.
Human brain — Any electrical current generates a magnetic field; neural oscillations induce weak magnetic fields, and in functional magnetoencephalography the current produced can show localised brain function in high resolution.
Human brain — Tractography uses MRI and image analysis to create 3D images of the nerve tracts of the brain.
Human brain — Connectograms give a graphical representation of the neural connections of the brain.
Human brain — Differences in brain structure can be measured in some disorders, notably schizophrenia and dementia.
Human brain — Different biological approaches using imaging have given more insight for example into the disorders of depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Human brain — A key source of information about the function of brain regions is the effects of damage to them.
Human brain — Advances in neuroimaging have enabled objective insights into mental disorders, leading to faster diagnosis, more accurate prognosis, and better monitoring.
Human brain — Bioinformatics is a field of study that includes the creation and advancement of databases, and computational and statistical techniques, that can be used in studies of the human brain, particularly in the areas of gene and protein expression.
Human brain — Bioinformatics and studies in genomics, and functional genomics, generated the need for DNA annotation, a transcriptome technology, identifying genes, their locations and functions.
Human brain — As of 2017, just under 20,000 protein-coding genes are seen to be expressed in the human, and some 400 of these genes are brain-specific.
Human brain — The data that has been provided on gene expression in the brain has fuelled further research into a number of disorders.
Human brain — The long term use of alcohol for example, has shown altered gene expression in the brain, and cell-type specific changes that may relate to alcohol use disorder.
Human brain — These changes have been noted in the synaptic transcriptome in the prefrontal cortex, and are seen as a factor causing the drive to alcohol dependence, and also to other substance abuses.
Human brain — Other related studies have also shown evidence of synaptic alterations and their loss, in the ageing brain.
Human brain — Changes in gene expression alter the levels of proteins in various neural pathways and this has been shown to be evident in synaptic contact dysfunction or loss.
Human brain — This dysfunction has been seen to affect many structures of the brain and has a marked effect on inhibitory neurons resulting in a decreased level of neurotransmission, and subsequent cognitive decline and disease.
Human brain — Traumatic brain injury, for example received in contact sport, after a fall, or a traffic or work accident, can be associated with both immediate and longer-term problems.
Human brain — Immediate problems may include bleeding within the brain, this may compress the brain tissue or damage its blood supply.
Human brain — Bruising may cause widespread damage to the nerve tracts that can lead to a condition of diffuse axonal injury.
Human brain — A fractured skull, injury to a particular area, deafness, and concussion are also possible immediate developments.
Human brain — In addition to the site of injury, the opposite side of the brain may be affected, termed a contrecoup injury.
Human brain — Longer-term issues that may develop include posttraumatic stress disorder, and hydrocephalus.
Human brain — === Disease === Neurodegenerative diseases result in progressive damage to, or loss of neurons affecting different functions of the brain, that worsen with age.
Human brain — Common types are dementias including Alzheimer's disease, alcoholic dementia, vascular dementia, and Parkinson's disease dementia.
Human brain — Other rarer infectious, genetic, or metabolic types include Huntington's disease, motor neuron diseases, HIV dementia, syphilis-related dementia and Wilson's disease.
Human brain — Neurodegenerative diseases can affect different parts of the brain, and can affect movement, memory, and cognition.
Human brain — Rare prion diseases including Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease and its variant, and kuru are fatal neurodegenerative diseases.
Human brain — It results from the build-up of plaques formed of cholesterol, in the large arteries of the brain, and can be mild to significant.
Human brain — It contributes to the development of dementia, and has protein similarities to those found in Alzheimer's disease.
Human brain — The brain, although protected by the blood–brain barrier, can be affected by infections including viruses, bacteria and fungi.
Human brain — Infection may be of the meninges (meningitis), the brain matter (encephalitis), or within the brain matter (such as a cerebral abscess).
Human brain — Most malignant tumours arise from another part of the body, most commonly from the lung, breast and skin.
Human brain — Cancers of brain tissue can also occur, and originate from any tissue in and around the brain.
Human brain — Meningioma, cancer of the meninges around the brain, is more common than cancers of brain tissue.
Human brain — Cancers within the brain may cause symptoms related to their size or position, with symptoms including headache and nausea, or the gradual development of focal symptoms such as gradual difficulty seeing, swallowing, talking, or as a change of mood.
Human brain — A variety of other tests including blood tests and lumbar puncture may be used to investigate for the cause of the cancer and evaluate the type and stage of the cancer.
Human brain — The corticosteroid dexamethasone is often given to decrease the swelling of brain tissue around a tumour.
Human brain — Surgery may be considered, however given the complex nature of many tumours or based on tumour stage or type, radiotherapy or chemotherapy may be considered more suitable.
Human brain — === Mental disorders === Mental disorders, such as depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, Tourette syndrome, and addiction, are known to relate to the functioning of the brain.
Human brain — Treatment for mental disorders may include psychotherapy, psychiatry, social intervention and personal recovery work or cognitive behavioural therapy; the underlying issues and associated prognoses vary significantly between individuals.
Human brain — === Epilepsy === Epileptic seizures are thought to relate to abnormal electrical activity.
Human brain — Seizure activity can manifest as absence of consciousness, focal effects such as limb movement or impediments of speech, or be generalized in nature.
Human brain — Status epilepticus refers to a seizure or series of seizures that have not terminated within five minutes.
Human brain — Seizures have a large number of causes, however many seizures occur without a definitive cause being found.
Human brain — In a person with epilepsy, risk factors for further seizures may include sleeplessness, drug and alcohol intake, and stress.
Human brain — Seizures may be assessed using blood tests, EEG and various medical imaging techniques based on the medical history and medical examination findings.
Human brain — In addition to treating an underlying cause and reducing exposure to risk factors, anticonvulsant medications can play a role in preventing further seizures.
Human brain — === Congenital === Some brain disorders, such as Tay–Sachs disease, are congenital and linked to genetic and chromosomal mutations.
Human brain — A rare group of congenital cephalic disorders known as lissencephaly is characterised by the lack of, or inadequacy of, cortical folding.
Human brain — Normal development of the brain can be affected during pregnancy by nutritional deficiencies, teratogens, infectious diseases, and by the use of recreational drugs, including alcohol (which may result in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders).
Human brain — Most cerebral arteriovenous malformations are congenital, these tangled networks of blood vessels may remain without symptoms but at their worst may rupture and cause intracranial hemorrhaging.
Human brain — A stroke is a decrease in blood supply to an area of the brain causing cell death and brain injury.
Human brain — This can lead to a wide range of symptoms, including the "FAST" symptoms of facial droop, arm weakness, and speech difficulties (including with speaking and finding words or forming sentences).
Human brain — Symptoms relate to the function of the affected area of the brain and can point to the likely site and cause of the stroke.
Human brain — Difficulties with movement, speech, or sight usually relate to the cerebrum, whereas imbalance, double vision, vertigo and symptoms affecting more than one side of the body usually relate to the brainstem or cerebellum.
Human brain — Most strokes result from loss of blood supply, typically because of an embolus, rupture of a fatty plaque causing thrombus, or narrowing of small arteries.
Human brain — Transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) are strokes in which symptoms resolve within 24 hours.
Human brain — Investigation into the stroke will involve a medical examination (including a neurological examination) and the taking of a medical history, focusing on the duration of the symptoms and risk factors (including high blood pressure, atrial fibrillation, and smoking).
Human brain — An ECG and biotelemetry may be conducted to identify atrial fibrillation; an ultrasound can investigate narrowing of the carotid arteries; an echocardiogram can be used to look for clots within the heart, diseases of the heart valves or the presence of a patent foramen ovale.
Human brain — Blood tests are routinely done as part of the workup including diabetes tests and a lipid profile.
Human brain — These include clot dissolution or surgical removal of a clot for ischaemic strokes, and decompression for haemorrhagic strokes.
Human brain — As stroke is time critical, hospitals and even pre-hospital care of stroke involves expedited investigations – usually a CT scan to investigate for a haemorrhagic stroke and a CT or MR angiogram to evaluate arteries that supply the brain.
Human brain — MRI scans, not as widely available, may be able to demonstrate the affected area of the brain more accurately, particularly with ischaemic stroke.
Human brain — Having experienced a stroke, a person may be admitted to a stroke unit, and treatments may be directed as preventing future strokes, including ongoing anticoagulation (such as aspirin or clopidogrel), antihypertensives, and lipid-lowering drugs.
Human brain — A multidisciplinary team including speech pathologists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, and psychologists plays a large role in supporting a person affected by a stroke and their rehabilitation.
Human brain — A history of stroke increases the risk of developing dementia by around 70%, and recent stroke increases the risk by around 120%.
Human brain — This is characterised by coma, loss of reflexes, and apnoea, however, the declaration of brain death varies geographically and is not always accepted.
Human brain — Declaration of brain death can have profound implications as the declaration, under the principle of medical futility, will be associated with the withdrawal of life support, and as those with brain death often have organs suitable for organ donation.
Human brain — The process is often made more difficult by poor communication with patients' families.
Human brain — When brain death is suspected, reversible differential diagnoses such as, electrolyte, neurological and drug-related cognitive suppression need to be excluded.
Human brain — Testing for reflexes can be of help in the decision, as can the absence of response and breathing.
Human brain — Clinical observations, including a total lack of responsiveness, a known diagnosis, and neural imaging evidence, may all play a role in the decision to pronounce brain death.
Human brain — == Society and culture == Neuroanthropology is the study of the relationship between culture and the brain.
Human brain — It explores how the brain gives rise to culture, and how culture influences brain development.
Human brain — Cultural differences and their relation to brain development and structure are researched in different fields.
Human brain — The philosophy of the mind studies such issues as the problem of understanding consciousness and the mind–body problem.
Human brain — The relationship between the brain and the mind is a significant challenge both philosophically and scientifically.
Human brain — This is because of the difficulty in explaining how mental activities, such as thoughts and emotions, can be implemented by physical structures such as neurons and synapses, or by any other type of physical mechanism.
Human brain — This difficulty was expressed by Gottfried Leibniz in the analogy known as Leibniz's Mill:
Human brain — One is obliged to admit that perception and what depends upon it is inexplicable on mechanical principles, that is, by figures and motions.
Human brain — In imagining that there is a machine whose construction would enable it to think, to sense, and to have perception, one could conceive it enlarged while retaining the same proportions, so that one could enter into it, just like into a windmill.
Human brain — Supposing this, one should, when visiting within it, find only parts pushing one another, and never anything by which to explain a perception. — Leibniz, Monadology Doubt about the possibility of a mechanistic explanation of thought drove René Descartes, and most other philosophers along with him, to dualism: the belief that the mind is to some degree independent of the brain.
Human brain — There is clear empirical evidence that physical manipulations of, or injuries to, the brain (for example by drugs or by lesions, respectively) can affect the mind in potent and intimate ways.
Human brain — In the 19th century, the case of Phineas Gage, a railway worker who was injured by a stout iron rod passing through his brain, convinced both researchers and the public that cognitive functions were localised in the brain.
Human brain — Following this line of thinking, a large body of empirical evidence for a close relationship between brain activity and mental activity has led most neuroscientists and contemporary philosophers to be materialists, believing that mental phenomena are ultimately the result of, or reducible to, physical phenomena.
Human brain — Studies tend to indicate small to moderate correlations (averaging around 0.3 to 0.4) between brain volume and IQ.
Human brain — The most consistent associations are observed within the frontal, temporal, and parietal lobes, the hippocampi, and the cerebellum, but these only account for a relatively small amount of variance in IQ, which itself has only a partial relationship to general intelligence and real-world performance.
Human brain — However, when the brain-to-body mass ratio is taken into account, the human brain is almost twice as large as that of a bottlenose dolphin, and three times as large as that of a chimpanzee.
Human brain — However, a high ratio does not of itself demonstrate intelligence: very small animals have high ratios and the treeshrew has the largest quotient of any mammal.
Human brain — Earlier ideas about the relative importance of the different organs of the human body sometimes emphasised the heart.
Human brain — Modern Western popular conceptions, in contrast, have placed increasing focus on the brain.
Human brain — It is not true (for example) that neurons are not replaced after the age of two; nor that normal humans use only ten per cent of the brain.
Human brain — Popular culture has also oversimplified the lateralisation of the brain by suggesting that functions are completely specific to one side of the brain or the other.
Human brain — Akio Mori coined the term "game brain" for the unreliably supported theory that spending long periods playing video games harmed the brain's pre-frontal region, and impaired the expression of emotion and creativity.
Human brain — Historically, particularly in the early-19th century, the brain featured in popular culture through phrenology, a pseudoscience that assigned personality attributes to different regions of the cortex.
Human brain — The human brain can feature in science fiction, with themes such as brain transplants and cyborgs (beings with features like partly artificial brains).
Human brain — The 1942 science-fiction book (adapted three times for the cinema) Donovan's Brain tells the tale of an isolated brain kept alive in vitro, gradually taking over the personality of the book's protagonist.
Human brain — The Edwin Smith Papyrus, an ancient Egyptian medical treatise written in the 17th century BC, contains the earliest recorded reference to the brain.
Human brain — The hieroglyph for brain, occurring eight times in this papyrus, describes the symptoms, diagnosis, and prognosis of two traumatic injuries to the head.
Human brain — The papyrus mentions the external surface of the brain, the effects of injury (including seizures and aphasia), the meninges, and cerebrospinal fluid.
Human brain — In the fifth century BC, Alcmaeon of Croton in Magna Grecia, first considered the brain to be the seat of the mind.
Human brain — Also in the fifth century BC in Athens, the unknown author of On the Sacred Disease, a medical treatise which is part of the Hippocratic Corpus and traditionally attributed to Hippocrates, believed the brain to be the seat of intelligence.
Human brain — Aristotle, in his biology initially believed the heart to be the seat of intelligence, and saw the brain as a cooling mechanism for the blood.
Human brain — He reasoned that humans are more rational than the beasts because, among other reasons, they have a larger brain to cool their hot-bloodedness.
Human brain — Aristotle did describe the meninges and distinguished between the cerebrum and cerebellum.
Human brain — Herophilus of Chalcedon in the fourth and third centuries BC distinguished the cerebrum and the cerebellum, and provided the first clear description of the ventricles; and with Erasistratus of Ceos experimented on living brains.
Human brain — Their works are now mostly lost, and we know about their achievements due mostly to secondary sources.
Human brain — Some of their discoveries had to be re-discovered a millennium after their deaths.
Human brain — Anatomist physician Galen in the second century AD, during the time of the Roman Empire, dissected the brains of sheep, monkeys, dogs, and pigs.
Human brain — He concluded that, as the cerebellum was denser than the brain, it must control the muscles, while as the cerebrum was soft, it must be where the senses were processed.
Human brain — Galen further theorised that the brain functioned by movement of animal spirits through the ventricles.
Human brain — In 2025, scientists reported the discovery of a preserved human brain from the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 AD.
Human brain — A man in Herculaneum was caught in a pyroclastic flow, and the extremely high temperature caused the vitrification of his brain, turning it into glass and resulting in "a perfect state of preservation of the brain and its microstructures." It appears to have been the only known case of a vitrified human brain.
Human brain — Archangelo Piccolomini of Rome was the first to distinguish between the cerebrum and cerebral cortex.
Human brain — The seventh book covered the brain and eye, with detailed images of the ventricles, cranial nerves, pituitary gland, meninges, structures of the eye, the vascular supply to the brain and spinal cord, and an image of the peripheral nerves.
Human brain — Vesalius rejected the common belief that the ventricles were responsible for brain function, arguing that many animals have a similar ventricular system to humans, but no true intelligence.
Human brain — René Descartes proposed the theory of dualism to tackle the issue of the brain's relation to the mind.
Human brain — He suggested that the pineal gland was where the mind interacted with the body, serving as the seat of the soul and as the connection through which animal spirits passed from the blood into the brain.
Human brain — This dualism likely provided impetus for later anatomists to further explore the relationship between the anatomical and functional aspects of brain anatomy.
Human brain — Thomas Willis is considered a second pioneer in the study of neurology and brain science.
Human brain — He wrote Cerebri Anatome (Latin: Anatomy of the brain) in 1664, followed by Cerebral Pathology in 1667.
Human brain — In these he described the structure of the cerebellum, the ventricles, the cerebral hemispheres, the brainstem, and the cranial nerves, studied its blood supply; and proposed functions associated with different areas of the brain.
Human brain — The circle of Willis was named after his investigations into the blood supply of the brain, and he was the first to use the word "neurology".
Human brain — Willis removed the brain from the body when examining it, and rejected the commonly held view that the cortex only consisted of blood vessels, and the view of the last two millennia that the cortex was only incidentally important.
Human brain — In the middle of 19th century Emil du Bois-Reymond and Hermann von Helmholtz were able to use a galvanometer to show that electrical impulses passed at measurable speeds along nerves, refuting the view of their teacher Johannes Peter Müller that the nerve impulse was a vital function that could not be measured.
Human brain — Richard Caton in 1875 demonstrated electrical impulses in the cerebral hemispheres of rabbits and monkeys.
Human brain — In the 1820s, Jean Pierre Flourens pioneered the experimental method of damaging specific parts of animal brains describing the effects on movement and behavior.
Human brain — Studies of the brain became more sophisticated with the use of the microscope and the development of a silver staining method by Camillo Golgi during the 1880s.
Human brain — This was used by Santiago Ramón y Cajal and led to the formation of the neuron doctrine, the then revolutionary hypothesis that the neuron is the functional unit of the brain.
Human brain — He used microscopy to uncover many cell types, and proposed functions for the cells he saw.
Human brain — For this, Golgi and Cajal are considered the founders of twentieth century neuroscience, both sharing the Nobel prize in 1906 for their studies and discoveries in this field.
Human brain — Charles Sherrington published his influential 1906 work The Integrative Action of the Nervous System examining the function of reflexes, evolutionary development of the nervous system, functional specialisation of the brain, and layout and cellular function of the central nervous system.
Human brain — John Farquhar Fulton, founded the Journal of Neurophysiology and published the first comprehensive textbook on the physiology of the nervous system during 1938.
Human brain — Neuroscience during the twentieth century began to be recognised as a distinct unified academic discipline, with David Rioch, Francis O.
Human brain — Rioch originated the integration of basic anatomical and physiological research with clinical psychiatry at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, starting in the 1950s.
Human brain — During the same period, Schmitt established the Neuroscience Research Program, an inter-university and international organisation, bringing together biology, medicine, psychological and behavioural sciences.
Human brain — Paul Broca associated regions of the brain with specific functions, in particular language in Broca's area, following work on brain-damaged patients.
Human brain — John Hughlings Jackson described the function of the motor cortex by watching the progression of epileptic seizures through the body.
Human brain — Carl Wernicke described a region associated with language comprehension and production.
Human brain — Korbinian Brodmann divided regions of the brain based on the appearance of cells.
Human brain — By 1950, Sherrington, Papez, and MacLean had identified many of the brainstem and limbic system functions.
Human brain — The capacity of the brain to re-organise and change with age, and a recognised critical development period, were attributed to neuroplasticity, pioneered by Margaret Kennard, who experimented on monkeys during the 1930-40s.
Human brain — Harvey Cushing (1869–1939) is recognised as the first proficient brain surgeon in the world.
Human brain — In 1937, Walter Dandy began the practice of vascular neurosurgery by performing the first surgical clipping of an intracranial aneurysm.
Human brain — Many of its features are common to all mammalian brains, most notably a six-layered cerebral cortex and a set of associated structures, including the hippocampus and amygdala.
Human brain — Humans have more association cortex, sensory and motor parts than smaller mammals such as the rat and the cat.
Human brain — As a primate brain, the human brain has a much larger cerebral cortex, in proportion to body size, than most mammals, and a highly developed visual system.
Human brain — As a hominid brain, the human brain is substantially enlarged even in comparison to the brain of a typical monkey.
Human brain — The sequence of human evolution from Australopithecus (four million years ago) to Homo sapiens (modern humans) was marked by a steady increase in brain size.
Human brain — As brain size increased, this altered the size and shape of the skull, from about 600 cm3 in Homo habilis to an average of about 1520 cm3 in Homo neanderthalensis.
Human brain — Differences in DNA, gene expression, and gene–environment interactions help explain the differences between the function of the human brain and other primates.
Human brain — Outline of the human brain Outline of neuroscience Brain health and pollution Cerebral atrophy Cortical spreading depression Evolution of human intelligence Large-scale brain networks Superficial veins of the brain
Human brain — == Bibliography == Colledge, Nicki R.; Walker, Brian R.; Ralston, Stuart H.; Ralston, eds. (2010).
Human cognition — They encompass psychological processes that acquire, store, retrieve, transform, or otherwise use information.
Human cognition — Cognitions are a pervasive part of mental life, helping individuals understand and interact with the world.
Human cognition — Perception organizes sensory information about the world, interpreting physical stimuli, such as light and sound, to construct a coherent experience of objects and events.
Human cognition — Attention prioritizes specific aspects while filtering out irrelevant information.
Human cognition — Memory is the ability to retain, store, and retrieve information, including working memory and long-term memory.
Human cognition — Thinking encompasses psychological activities in which concepts, ideas, and mental representations are considered and manipulated.
Human cognition — Many cognitive activities deal with language, including language acquisition, comprehension, and production.
Human cognition — Metacognition involves knowledge about knowledge or mental processes that monitor and regulate other mental processes.
Human cognition — Classifications also distinguish between conscious and unconscious processes and between controlled and automatic ones.
Human cognition — Classical computationalism argues that cognitive processes manipulate symbols according to mechanical rules, similar to how computers execute algorithms.
Human cognition — Connectionism models the mind as a complex network of nodes where information flows as nodes communicate with each other.
Human cognition — Representationalism and anti-representationalism disagree about whether cognitive processes operate on internal representations of the world.
Human cognition — Many disciplines explore cognition, including psychology, neuroscience, and cognitive science.
Human cognition — They examine different levels of abstraction and employ distinct methods of inquiry.
Human cognition — Some scientists study cognitive development, investigating how mental abilities grow from infancy through adulthood.
Human cognition — While cognitive research mostly focuses on humans, it also explores how animals acquire knowledge and how artificial systems can emulate cognitive processes.
Human cognition — == Definition == Cognitions are mental processes that deal with knowledge, involving the acquisition, transformation, storage, retrieval, and use of information.
Human cognition — For example, these processes occur when reading an article, as sensory information about the text is acquired and preexisting linguistic knowledge is retrieved to interpret the meaning.
Human cognition — This information is then transformed as different ideas are linked, resulting in the storage of information as memories and beliefs are formed.
Human cognition — Cognitions are a pervasive part of mental life, and many cognitive processes happen simultaneously.
Human cognition — They are essential for understanding and interacting with the world by making individuals aware of their environment and helping them plan and execute appropriate responses.
Human cognition — It considers ideas, analyzes information, draws inferences, solves problems, and forms beliefs.
Human cognition — However, cognition is not limited to abstract reasoning and encompasses diverse psychological processes, including perception, attention, memory, language, and decision-making.
Human cognition — It is debated whether or under what conditions feelings, emotions, and other affects qualify as cognitions.
Human cognition — Some controversial views associated with cognitivism argue that all mental phenomena are cognitions.
Human cognition — Cognitive activities can happen consciously, like when a person deliberately analyzes a problem step by step.
Human cognition — They can also take place unconsciously, such as automatic mechanisms responsible for language processing and facial recognition.
Human cognition — Rationalists typically emphasize the role of basic principles and inferences in the generation of knowledge.
Human cognition — Empiricists, by contrast, highlight sensory processes as the ultimate source of all knowledge of the world, arguing that all cognitive processes deal with sensory input.
Human cognition — Many fields of inquiry study cognition, including psychology, cognitive science, neurology, and philosophy.
Human cognition — While research focuses primarily on the human mind, cognition is not limited to humans and encompasses animal and artificial cognition.
Human cognition — The term cognition originates from the Indo-European root gnō-, meaning 'to know'.
Human cognition — This root is present in the Latin term gnōscere, also meaning 'to know', which led to the formation of the verb cognōscere, meaning 'to learn, to investigate'.
Human cognition — Through its past participle cognitus, the Latin verb entered Middle English as cognicioun.
Human cognition — The earliest documented use occurred in 1447, eventually evolving into the modern English word cognition.
Human cognition — == Types of cognitive processes == Cognitive processes encompass various types, each managing different information and performing distinct functions within the human mind.
Human cognition — They are sometimes divided into basic processes, like perception and memory, and higher-order processes, like thinking.
Human cognition — This distinction is based on the idea that higher-order processes rely on basic processes and could not occur without them.
Human cognition — Perception is the organization and interpretation of sensory information about the world.
Human cognition — It is a complex mental activity that involves the interplay of diverse cognitive processes, many of which occur automatically and unconsciously.
Human cognition — It starts with physical stimuli, such as light or sound, which are detected by receptors and transmitted to the brain as electrical signals.
Human cognition — These signals are processed in various brain regions to construct a coherent experience of distinct objects and events while situating them in a spatial-temporal framework.
Human cognition — Certain cognitive processes are responsible for detecting basic features in the sensory data, such as edges, colors, and pitches, while others process spatial location.
Human cognition — Object recognition is another function that compares this information with stored representations in search of known patterns, such as recognizing a familiar landmark or identifying a specific melody.
Human cognition — Some cognitive faculties are specialized for tasks only relevant to particular perceptual contents, such as face recognition and language processing.
Human cognition — Cognitive processes responsible for perception rely on various heuristics to simplify problems and reduce cognitive labor.
Human cognition — For example, visual perception often assumes that the size, shape, and color of objects remain constant to ensure a consistent view despite changes in perspective or lighting.
Human cognition — Different forms of perception are associated with distinct types of stimuli and receptors.
Human cognition — Visual perception, based on the detection of light, is a primary source of knowledge about the external environment.
Human cognition — Data from these different modalities is integrated by higher-order cognitive processes to form a unified and coherent experience of the world.
Human cognition — Although sensory data is a central factor of perceptual experience, it is not the only factor, and various other forms of information influence the underlying cognitive operations.
Human cognition — For instance, memories from earlier experiences determine which objects are experienced as familiar.
Human cognition — Other factors include the expectations, goals, background knowledge, and belief system of the individual.
Human cognition — Attention is a central aspect of mental processes that focuses cognitive resources on certain stimuli or features.
Human cognition — It involves the selection or prioritization of specific aspects while filtering out irrelevant information.
Human cognition — For example, attention is responsible for the cocktail party effect, in which the brain concentrates on a single conversation while relegating the surrounding party noise to the background.
Human cognition — The selection process is crucial since the total amount of information is typically too vast for the brain to process all at once.
Human cognition — Attention is not limited to perception but is also present in other cognitive processes, such as remembering and thinking.
Human cognition — It includes the capacity to consciously recall past experiences and is central to many other cognitive activities that rely on stored data to process information and coordinate behavior.
Human cognition — Memory processes have three stages: an input phase where new information is acquired, a storage phase preserving the information for future access, and an output phase retrieving the information and making it available to other cognitive operations.
Human cognition — Different types of memory are distinguished by the function they perform and the type of information they operate on.
Human cognition — Working memory stores information temporarily, making it available to other cognitive processes while allowing manipulation of the stored information.
Human cognition — During mental arithmetic, for example, the working memory holds and updates intermediate results while calculations are performed.
Human cognition — The term is sometimes used interchangeably with the term short-term memory, which is defined by brief retention without the emphasis on dynamic manipulation.
Human cognition — Long-term memory, by contrast, retains information for long periods, in some cases indefinitely.
Human cognition — However, it remains available for retrieval, like when recalling a childhood memory.
Human cognition — Passive exposure to information is usually not sufficient for the effective formation and retrieval of long-term memories.
Human cognition — Relevant factors include the level and type of engagement with the content, like attention, emotion, mood, and the context in which the information is processed.
Human cognition — Long-term memory is typically divided into episodic, semantic, and procedural memory based on the type of information involved.
Human cognition — Episodic memory deals with information about past personal experiences and events.
Human cognition — New memories are stored as a person undergoes experiences and can be accessed later, either by accessing factual information about the events or by reliving them.
Human cognition — Semantic memory deals with general knowledge about facts and concepts not linked to specific experiences.
Human cognition — For instance, the information that water freezes at 0 °C is stored in semantic memory.
Human cognition — It encompasses learned skills that can be executed, like the abilities to ride a bicycle and type on a keyboard.
Human cognition — As a form of know-how, procedural memory is distinct from the capacity to verbally describe the exact procedure involved in the execution, like explaining how to maintain balance on a bicycle.
Human cognition — For this reason, procedural memory is categorized as non-declarative or implicit memory, which operates automatically and cannot be consciously accessed.
Human cognition — Episodic and semantic memory, by contrast, belong to declarative or explicit memory, which encompasses information that can be consciously recalled and described.
Human cognition — The different forms of memory play a central role in learning, which involves the acquisition of novel information, skills, or habits, as well as changes to existing structures.
Human cognition — Learning occurs through experience and enables individuals to adapt to their environment.
Human cognition — It happens either intentionally, such as studying or practicing, or unintentionally as an unconscious side effect while engaging in other tasks.
Human cognition — A central aspect of effective learning is the formation of memory connections, which link different pieces of information and facilitate their retrieval.
Human cognition — Thinking is a mental activity in which concepts, ideas, and mental representations are considered and manipulated.
Human cognition — Many cognitive processes fall into this category, including reasoning, concept formation, problem solving, and decision-making.
Human cognition — Logical reasoning deals with information in the form of statements by inferring a conclusion from a set of premises.
Human cognition — It proceeds in a rigorous and norm-governed manner to ensure that the conclusion is rationally convincing and supported by the premises.
Human cognition — Deductive reasoning follows strict rules of inference, providing the strongest support: the conclusion of a deductive inference cannot be false if all the premises are true.
Human cognition — An example is the inference from the premises "all men are mortal" and "Socrates is a man" to the conclusion "Socrates is mortal".
Human cognition — Non-deductive reasoning makes a conclusion rationally convincing but does not guarantee its truth.
Human cognition — For instance, inductive reasoning infers a general law from many individual observations, like concluding that all ravens are black based on observations of numerous black ravens.
Human cognition — Abductive reasoning, another type of non-deductive reasoning, seeks the best explanation of a phenomenon.
Human cognition — For example, a doctor uses abductive reasoning when they infer that a child has chickenpox as an explanation of the child's skin rash and fever.
Human cognition — Problem-solving is a goal-directed activity that aims to overcome obstacles and arrive at a pre-defined objective.
Human cognition — This happens, for instance, when determining the best route for an upcoming trip.
Human cognition — Problem-solving starts with comprehending the problem, which typically involves an understanding of the initial state, the goal state, and the obstacles or constraints that hinder progress.
Human cognition — For ill-structured problems, by contrast, it is not possible to determine which exact steps are successful.
Human cognition — To find solutions, creativity in the form of divergent thinking generates many possible approaches.
Human cognition — Convergent thinking evaluates the different options and eliminates unfeasible ones.
Human cognition — Thought often relies on heuristics or general rules to find and compare possible solutions.
Human cognition — Common heuristics are to divide a problem into several simpler subproblems and to adapt strategies that were successful for similar problems encountered earlier.
Human cognition — Closely related to problem-solving, decision-making is the cognitive process of choosing between courses of action.
Human cognition — To determine the best alternative, it weighs the different options by assessing their advantages and disadvantages, for example, by considering their positive and negative consequences.
Human cognition — According to expected utility theory, a decision is rational if it selects the option with the highest expected utility, which is determined by the probability and the value of each consequence.
Human cognition — To assess the probability of an outcome, people use various heuristics in everyday situations, such as the representativeness heuristic, the availability heuristic, and anchoring.
Human cognition — Different forms of thinking rely on concepts, which are general ideas or mental representations to sort objects into classes, like the concepts animal and table.
Human cognition — Concept formation is the process of acquiring a new concept by learning to identify its instances and grasping its relation to other concepts.
Human cognition — This process helps individuals organize information and make sense of the world.
Human cognition — Logical concepts have precise definitions and rules of application, like the concept triangle.
Human cognition — Natural concepts, by contrast, are based on resemblance but lack exact definitions or clear-cut boundaries, like the concept table.
Human cognition — A language is a structured communication system based on symbols and rules to share information and coordinate action, such as English, Spanish, and Japanese.
Human cognition — Language plays a central role in everyday life, and some theorists argue that language affects numerous cognitive processes to some extent.
Human cognition — For example, the Whorfian hypothesis and the thesis of linguistic relativity propose that language influences thought patterns and that speakers of distinct languages think differently.
Human cognition — Many cognitive processes are involved in the acquisition, comprehension, and production of linguistic expressions.
Human cognition — Language acquisition happens naturally in childhood through exposure to a linguistic environment.
Human cognition — It is a complex process since the system of spoken language is made up of several layers.
Human cognition — They do not have linguistic meaning themselves but are combined into words, which refer to diverse things and ideas.
Human cognition — This system makes it possible to form and comprehend an infinite number of sentences based on a finite knowledge of a limited number of words and rules.
Human cognition — The exact meaning of sentences usually depends also on the context in which they are used.
Human cognition — Although distinct languages can differ significantly in their general structure, there are some universal cognitive patterns that underlie all human languages.
Human cognition — Language comprehension is the process of understanding spoken, written, and signed language.
Human cognition — It involves the coordination of various cognitive skills to recognize words, consult memory to access their meanings, analyze sentence structures, and use contextual information to interpret their implications.
Human cognition — Additional difficulties come from lexical and structural ambiguities, in which a word or a sentence can be associated with multiple meanings.
Human cognition — To resolve ambiguities, individuals rely on background knowledge about the overall topic and the speaker to discern the intended meaning.
Human cognition — As a result, language comprehension depends not only on bottom-up processes, which start with sensory information, but also on top-down processes, which integrate general knowledge and expectations.
Human cognition — For example, expectations cause longer processing times if a familiar word occurs in a context where the reader did not expect it.
Human cognition — While language comprehension seeks to uncover the meaning of pre-existing linguistic messages, language production involves the inverse process of generating linguistic expressions to convey thoughts.
Human cognition — It starts with the formulation of a general idea one wants to express and a rough sentence pattern of how to communicate it.
Human cognition — Speakers then cognitively search for words that match the concepts they wish to convey.
Human cognition — This activity, known as lexicalization, is divided into two stages: the identification of an abstract semantic representation of the intended concept, followed by the retrieval of the phonological form needed to pronounce the word.
Human cognition — As speakers string together words to generate a sentence, they consider the grammatical category of each word, like the contrast between nouns and adjectives, to align with the intended overall sentence structure.
Human cognition — Additionally, the context of the conversation and the assumed background knowledge of the audience influence the selection of words and sentence structure.
Human cognition — Conscious processes, such as attentively solving a math problem step by step or recalling a vivid memory, involve active awareness.
Human cognition — Unconscious processes, such as low-level processes underlying face recognition and language processing, operate automatically in the background without the individual's awareness.
Human cognition — Phenomenal consciousness involves a qualitative experience of mental phenomena, whereas access consciousness is an awareness of information that is available for use but not actively experienced at the moment.
Human cognition — They include the idea that consciousness integrates diverse forms of data and makes information globally available to various subsystems.
Human cognition — Other theories argue that consciousness improves social interaction by fostering self-awareness in social contexts and that it allows for increased flexibility and control, particularly in novel situations.
Human cognition — Controlled processes are actively guided by the individual's intentions, like when a person deliberately shifts attention from one object of perception to another.
Human cognition — These processes are flexible and adaptable to new situations but require more cognitive resources.
Human cognition — Automatic processes, by contrast, happen unconsciously, are effortless, and require fewer cognitive resources.
Human cognition — By becoming familiar with a task, a cognitive process that was initially controlled can become automatic, thereby freeing up cognitive resources for other tasks.
Human cognition — For example, as a novice driver becomes experienced, they can automatically handle the car and adapt to road and traffic conditions while gaining the ability to engage in a conversation at the same time.
Human cognition — Consciousness is closely related to metacognition, which encompasses any knowledge or cognitive process that deals with information about cognition.
Human cognition — Some forms of metacognition only manage or store information about other aspects of cognition, like knowing that one can recall a specific memory.
Human cognition — Others play an active role in monitoring and regulating ongoing processes, like changing a problem-solving strategy upon realizing that the previous one was ineffective.
Human cognition — Metacognitive skills tend to improve the performance of other cognitive skills, particularly when dealing with complex tasks.
Human cognition — Social cognitions are mental activities through which individuals make sense of social phenomena.
Human cognition — They include diverse types, such as the recognition of faces and facial expressions, the interpretation of intentions and behavior, and the evaluation of social cues and dynamics.
Human cognition — A central topic in this field is theory of mind—the ability to understand others as mental beings with emotions, desires, and beliefs different from one's own.
Human cognition — This ability allows individuals to think about and respond to the mental states of others.
Human cognition — Moral cognitions are a type of social cognition that make individuals aware of the moral significance of situations.
Human cognition — They occur when people recognize and appreciate altruistic behavior or disapprove of malicious and harmful actions.
Human cognition — Cognitive psychologists also study the relation between cognition and emotion, for example, how emotions influence mental operations like attention and decision-making.
Human cognition — Cognitive processes do not always function as they should and can lead to inaccuracies, either because of natural errors associated with cognitive biases or as a result of pathological impairments from cognitive disorders.
Human cognition — Cognitive biases are systematic ways in which human thinking deviates from ideal norms of rationality.
Human cognition — They are common patterns that affect most people, leading to misinterpretations of reality and suboptimal decisions.
Human cognition — Cognitive biases are often caused by heuristics or mental shortcuts, which the brain uses to increase speed and reduce cognitive load.
Human cognition — For instance, people typically rely on information that easily comes to mind when assessing a situation while disregarding more relevant information that is harder to retrieve.
Human cognition — Cognitive disorders involve a more pronounced deviation from typical mental functioning.
Human cognition — High-level cognitive abilities usually require the interaction of many low-level processes.
Human cognition — Impairments affecting a specific subprocess often result in a partial malfunction of the high-level process while leaving its other functions intact.
Human cognition — For example, prosopagnosia is a perceptual disorder in which individuals lack the ability to recognize faces without impacting other visual abilities.
Human cognition — Similarly, anterograde amnesia is an impaired ability to form and recall new memories but leaves long-term memory intact.
Human cognition — Disorders can affect a wide range of mental functions, including thought and language.
Human cognition — Some disorders involve a general cognitive decline that is not limited to one specific function.
Human cognition — For instance, Alzheimer's disease is associated with a global, gradual impairment of memory, reasoning, and language.
Human cognition — They provide conceptualizations and models to represent cognitive processes, explain empirical data, and predict experimental outcomes.
Human cognition — Some theories propose interpretations of the overall cognitive architecture of the mind, seeking to explain cognition as a whole.
Human cognition — Others suggest more limited models intended only for specific mental activities, such as theories of visual attention.
Human cognition — === Classical computationalism === Computationalism interprets cognition as a form of computation, highlighting the similarities between minds and computers.
Human cognition — Classical computationalism understands cognitions as symbol manipulations and asserts that the brain represents information through symbols or strings of symbols.
Human cognition — In this view, computations operate on strings to create new strings according to a set of mechanical rules.
Human cognition — These rules only depend on the syntactic structure of the strings, meaning that cognitive processes have no understanding of what the symbols represent.
Human cognition — For example, a simple calculator transforms the string "3 + 7" into the result "10" according to the mechanical rules of arithmetic without grasping the meaning of these numerals.
Human cognition — To handle complex data dealing with many entities and their interrelations, theorists often introduce more sophisticated symbol-based devices of knowledge representation, such as semantic nets, schemata, and frames.
Human cognition — According to classical computationalism, any cognitive activity is at its fundamental level a formal symbol manipulation, including perception, reasoning, planning, and language processing.
Human cognition — This perspective helps researchers analyze and distinguish cognitive processes by examining the types of representations involved and the mechanical rules followed.
Human cognition — The highest level analyzes the goal or purpose of a process, identifying the information it receives, the problem it aims to solve, and the result it produces.
Human cognition — The intermediary level involves the decomposition of the process into individual steps, analyzing how the computation is performed or which algorithm is used.
Human cognition — The most concrete level explores how the algorithm is implemented on a material level through neurological systems.
Human cognition — Classical computationalism is closely related to the information-processing approach, which assumes that most cognitive activities are complex processes arising from the interaction of several subprocesses.
Human cognition — Each process is characterized by the function it performs, which is connected to the input information it obtains, how it transforms this information, and the output it generates.
Human cognition — Interaction happens when the output of one subprocess acts as the input for another.
Human cognition — This approach is associated with serial models in which complex computations are divided into sequences of calculations where intermediary results are computed and transmitted until a final output is produced.
Human cognition — It typically divides the mind into a small number of high-level systems responsible for different tasks, such as perception, memory, and reasoning.
Human cognition — Information-processing models often rely on a hierarchical cognitive architecture where a central system integrates information from other units and formulates overall goals.
Human cognition — The language of thought hypothesis is a version of classical computationalism arguing that thought happens through the medium of an internal linguistic system similar to natural languages, termed mentalese.
Human cognition — It suggests that mental states like beliefs and desires are realized through mentalese sentences and that cognitive operations transform these sentences according to specific rules.
Human cognition — According to this view, representations have the form of statements, similar to declarative sentences.
Human cognition — Computational processes are conceptualized as rules of inference, which take one or more sentences as input and produce a new sentence as output.
Human cognition — For example, modus ponens is a rule of inference that, when applied to the premises "if it rains, then the ground is wet" and "it rains", results in the conclusion "the ground is wet".
Human cognition — Certain rule-based approaches interpret cognition as the application of if-then rules to generate new representations.
Human cognition — According to this outlook, a cognitive system is made up of many rules, each defined by one or more conditions together with an output procedure.
Human cognition — If information stored in the working memory satisfies all the conditions of a rule then its output procedure is triggered and transfers a new representation to the working memory.
Human cognition — This change may, in turn, prompt the execution of another rule, leading to a dynamic sequence of operations that can solve complex computational tasks.
Human cognition — As another form of computationalism, connectionism agrees that cognitions are computations but proposes a different cognitive architecture based on a complex network of nodes.
Human cognition — The nodes are locally linked with each other, and the activity of each node depends on the inputs it receives from connected nodes.
Human cognition — The nodes are typically arranged in layers where information flows in one direction from earlier to later layers.
Human cognition — The initial input layer of nodes receives information, such as sensory data, and passes it on to intermediary layers, where the main computation takes place.
Human cognition — At the end of the process stands an output layer, which transmits the result to other systems.
Human cognition — The behavior of each individual node is usually relatively simple: the node's activation value is determined by its weighted inputs and broadcast to nodes in the subsequent layer.
Human cognition — Complex computations emerge as numerous nodes operate in parallel and interact across layers.
Human cognition — Connectionism is closely related to computational neuroscience, and some researchers directly integrate neurological data about electrochemical activities of neurons into their theories.
Human cognition — However, the more common approach is to use abstract, idealized models to avoid complexities introduced by neurophysiological mechanisms.
Human cognition — Connectionism also shares various interests with the field of artificial intelligence, and the networks and learning algorithms proposed in one field often have similar applications in the other.
Human cognition — Connectionists typically reject the serial and hierarchical models common in classical computationalism.
Human cognition — Instead, they argue that cognition happens in parallel as countless neurons work simultaneously without a central control system guiding the process.
Human cognition — Although connectionism is often presented as an alternative to computationalism, the two views do not necessarily exclude each other.
Human cognition — For example, implementation connectionists argue that non-symbolic processes at the fundamental neural level implement symbolic processes at a more abstract level.
Human cognition — According to this view, the cognitive system functions as a neural network at the fundamental level and as a symbol-processor when viewed from a more abstract perspective.
Human cognition — This position contrasts with radical connectionism, which asserts that symbol-based approaches are fundamentally flawed since they misconstrue the nature of cognition.
Human cognition — === Representationalism and anti-representationalism === Both classical computationalism and common forms of connectionism accept representationalism, which holds that information is stored in representations that depict the state of the world.
Human cognition — Representations can take various forms, such as symbols, images, and concepts, as well as subsymbolic patterns used to model higher-level structures.
Human cognition — Representationalists examine how cognitive systems encode, manipulate, and decode representations to construct internal models of the environment and predict changes.
Human cognition — Anti-representationalists reject the idea that cognition is about representing the world through internal models.
Human cognition — They assert that intelligence arises from the interaction between an organism and its environment rather than from internal processes alone.
Human cognition — For example, approaches in behaviorism and situated robotics suggest an immediate link between perception and action: environmental stimuli are directly processed and translated into behavior following stimulus-response patterns.
Human cognition — This outlook suggests that intelligent behavior emerges if an entity has stimulus-response patterns that match the external situation, even if the cognitive system responsible for these patterns has no representations of what the environment is like.
Human cognition — Anti-representationalism is closely related to 4E cognition, a family of views critical of the prioritization of internal representations.
Human cognition — 4E cognition examines the relation between mind, body, and environment, including embodied, embedded, extended, and enactive cognition.
Human cognition — Embodied cognition is the idea that cognitive processes are grounded in bodily experience and cannot be understood in isolation from the organism's sensorimotor capacities.
Human cognition — Embedded cognition asserts that cognitive effort and efficiency depend on physical and social environments.
Human cognition — Extended cognition claims that the environment not only influences cognition but forms part of it, meaning that cognitive processes extend beyond internal neural activity to include external events.
Human cognition — Enactive cognition asserts that cognition arises from the active interaction between organism and environment.
Human cognition — === Others === The modularity of mind is an approach that analyzes the cognitive system in terms of independent mental modules.
Human cognition — Each module is an inborn mechanism that deals only with a specific type of information while being mostly unaware of the activities of other modules.
Human cognition — Mental modules are primarily used to explain low-level cognitive processes, such as edge detection in visual perception.
Human cognition — The massive modularity hypothesis, by contrast, asserts that the mind is entirely composed of modules.
Human cognition — According to this view, mental modules are also responsible for high-level cognitive processes by linking and integrating the outputs of low-level cognitive processes.
Human cognition — Bayesianism applies probability theory to model cognitive processes such as learning, vision, and motor control.
Human cognition — Its central idea is that representations of the environment can be more or less reliable and that the laws of probability theory describe how to integrate information and manage uncertainty.
Human cognition — According to them, the brain creates and adjusts its internal representation of the environment by predicting what is going to happen, comparing the predictions to reality, and updating the internal representation accordingly.
Human cognition — Dual process theory relies on the distinction between automatic and controlled processes to analyze cognitive phenomena.
Human cognition — It conceptualizes them as two systems and proposes different models of their interaction.
Human cognition — According to the default-interventionist model, the automatic system generates impressions while the controlled system monitors them and intervenes if it detects problems.
Human cognition — The parallel-competitive model, by contrast, suggests that each system generates its own type of knowledge and that the outputs of the different systems compete with each other.
Human cognition — Cognitive development is the progressive growth of mental abilities from infancy through adulthood as individuals acquire improved cognitive skills and learn from experience.
Human cognition — Others involve discontinuous transitions in the form of abrupt reorganizations resulting in qualitative changes.
Human cognition — They are typically conceptualized as stages through which the individual passes.
Human cognition — The nature versus nurture debate addresses the causes of cognitive development, contrasting the influences of inborn dispositions with the effects of environment and experience.
Human cognition — This view is inspired by John Locke's idea that the mind of an infant is a blank slate that initially knows nothing of the world.
Human cognition — According to this outlook, children learn through sense data by associating and generalizing impressions.
Human cognition — Nativists, by contrast, argue that the mind has innate knowledge of abstract patterns.
Human cognition — They suggest that this inborn framework organizes sensory information and guides learning.
Human cognition — Various theories of the general mechanisms and stages of cognitive development have been proposed.
Human cognition — Jean Piaget's theory divides cognitive development into four stages, each marked by an increasing capacity for abstraction and systematic understanding.
Human cognition — In the initial sensory-motor stage, from birth to about two years, children explore sensory impressions and motor capacities, learning that things continue to exist when not observed.
Human cognition — During the pre-operational stage, up to about age seven, children begin to understand and use symbols intuitively.
Human cognition — In the following stages of concrete and formal operation, children first apply logical reasoning to concrete physical objects and then, from around age twelve, also to abstract ideas.
Human cognition — In contrast to Piaget's approach, Lev Vygotsky's theory sees social interaction as the primary driver of cognitive development without clearly demarcated stages.
Human cognition — It holds that children learn new skills by engaging in tasks under the guidance of knowledgeable others.
Human cognition — This view emphasizes the role of language acquisition, suggesting that children internalize language and use it in private speech as a tool for planning, self-regulation, and problem solving.
Human cognition — Other approaches examine the role of different types of representation in cognitive development.
Human cognition — For example, Annette Karmiloff-Smith proposes that cognitive developments involve a shift from implicit to explicit representations, making knowledge more complex and easier to access.
Human cognition — Siegler, asserts that children use multiple cognitive strategies to solve problems and become more adept at selecting effective strategies as they develop.
Human cognition — Some influences occur even before birth, due to factors like nutrition, maternal stress, and harmful substances like alcohol during pregnancy.
Human cognition — Developments in childhood affect all major cognitive faculties, including perception, memory, thinking, and language.
Human cognition — In old age, overall cognition declines, affecting reasoning, comprehension, novel problem solving, and memory.
Human cognition — Animal cognition refers to mechanisms through which animals acquire knowledge and transform information to engage in flexible, goal-oriented behavior.
Human cognition — Animals use cognitive abilities for many daily tasks, for example, to find and recognize food, navigate territory, seek shelter, hunt prey, avoid predators, interact socially, communicate, learn new habits, and form long-term memories.
Human cognition — Researchers examine cognition across diverse species, including mammals, birds, fish, and insects.
Human cognition — Animal cognition is typically specialized and domain-specific, meaning that a species may excel at particular tasks and contexts while performing poorly in others.
Human cognition — They are interested in whether animals can form abstract concepts, expressed in the ability to understand a category and apply it to novel instances.
Human cognition — As a result, they acquire various number-related abilities, like identifying collections containing a specific number of items.
Human cognition — Another often-studied capacity is the power to form and remember a spatial map of the environment.
Human cognition — This enables animals, such as jays, to navigate efficiently and choose the shortest route to a shelter or a feeding site.
Human cognition — Research also addresses imitation, in which an animal copies the behavior of another animal.
Human cognition — Beyond animal cognition, some researchers also examine plant cognition, such as plant communication.
Human cognition — For instance, maple trees release airborne chemicals to warn nearby trees of a herbivore attack, helping them prepare defensive responses.
Human cognition — Comparative cognition is the study of the similarities and differences in cognitive abilities across species.
Human cognition — It is an interdisciplinary field of inquiry that also considers evolutionary factors.
Human cognition — For example, researchers investigate which cognitive traits are required to solve particular socioecological problems and how these traits evolved in different species.
Human cognition — A traditionally dominant approach divides animal cognition into higher and lower psychological processes based on features like flexibility and complexity.
Human cognition — However, it is controversial to what extent this contrast captures meaningful functional distinctions, and researchers risk anthropomorphic bias by interpreting animal cognition in terms of human traits.
Human cognition — === Artificial === Artificial cognition uses computational systems to emulate and model cognitive processes, like perception and reasoning, with central applications in artificial intelligence and robotics.
Human cognition — For example, artificial cognition excels at rapidly processing vast datasets according to predefined algorithms.
Human cognition — Human cognition, by contrast, is typically better suited to assess emotional significance and to find and evaluate solutions that require novel and creative thinking.
Human cognition — These differences affect how the two forms of cognition are integrated with each other.
Human cognition — In aviation, for example, it helps monitor diverse metrics, allowing human pilots to focus on decision-making rather than data analysis.
Human cognition — However, there are also cases where artificial cognition replaces human cognition, such as autonomous vehicle navigation.
Human cognition — The field of artificial cognitive systems explores the possibility of autonomous machines with human-like cognition.
Human cognition — This encompasses not only artificial intelligence at the level of individual tasks, such as object detection or language translation, but also the integration of diverse cognitive processes.
Human cognition — The aim is an embodied system that can autonomously interact with its environment in real time.
Human cognition — An artificial cognitive system can navigate its surroundings, set goals, devise means to achieve them, anticipate outcomes, adapt to circumstances, execute action plans, and learn from experience.
Human cognition — Artificial general intelligence, a closely related concept, refers to hypothetical systems that possess or surpass the full range of human mental abilities.
Human cognition — It is controversial whether such a system can be fully realized since it would include not only computational capacities associated with logical reasoning but also emotion and phenomenal consciousness.
Human cognition — == In various fields == Many fields of inquiry study cognition, including psychology, neuroscience, and cognitive science.
Human cognition — They examine different aspects of cognition, ranging from high-level computational processes to low-level neural mechanisms, and employ distinct methods to reach their conclusions.
Human cognition — There is substantial overlap among these disciplines, and researchers from one field often rely on conceptual models or empirical findings from another.
Human cognition — Cognitive psychology examines mental activities responsible for cognitive phenomena and intelligent behavior.
Human cognition — It uses the scientific method to study cognitive processes like perception, memory, reasoning, and language.
Human cognition — Although mental activities mediate between stimuli and responses, they are not directly observable, which poses a methodological challenge for researchers.
Human cognition — It typically forces them to rely on indirect methods for empirical validation, usually in the form of models or theories that have testable predictions.
Human cognition — For example, if a theory predicts a specific behavior in a particular situation, then empirical observations can determine if outcomes align with those predictions.
Human cognition — Cognitive psychologists use diverse methods to gather data for empirical validation.
Human cognition — Experimental methods create controlled situations in which certain factors, called independent variables, can be changed.
Human cognition — The main interest is in how these factors influence individuals in the situation.
Human cognition — By measuring the effects, called dependent variables, researchers aim to identify causal relations between independent and dependent variables.
Human cognition — Correlational methods, by contrast, measure the degree of association between two variables without proving that one causes the other.
Human cognition — Cognitive psychologists also integrate methods from other disciplines, including neuroimaging techniques and computational simulations.
Human cognition — Early cognitive psychologists made extensive use of introspection, in which researchers examine and reflect on their own experiences to understand mental processes.
Human cognition — The choice of method depends a lot on the studied cognitive process, such as the differences between research on perception and memory.
Human cognition — Cognitive neuroscience investigates how the nervous system gives rise to cognition.
Human cognition — It is particularly interested in the brain, covering both micro-scale studies of individual neurons and synapses as well as the macro-scale analyses of interactions between brain regions.
Human cognition — For example, cognitive neuroscientists study the brain areas responsible for processes like memory and decision-making, exploring how they represent and transform information and communicate with each other on a biological level.
Human cognition — They also examine how these processes are influenced by neurotransmitters—signalling molecules that affect information exchange between neurons.
Human cognition — Cognitive neuroscientists employ neuroimaging techniques to study brain activity, including electroencephalography (EEG), positron emission tomography (PET), and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).
Human cognition — These techniques visualize neural processes by measuring phenomena such as electrical or magnetic changes and blood flow across different brain areas, indicating local activity levels.
Human cognition — Researchers compare the activation patterns associated with specific mental tasks to learn how regional brain activity correlates with cognitive demands.
Human cognition — It seeks to understand the role of a brain area indirectly by studying how cognition changes if the area is impaired.
Human cognition — A different approach, common in computational or theoretical neuroscience, is to design computational or mathematical models of cognitive systems.
Human cognition — This approach explores possible explanations of observed mental phenomena and neural activities by modeling and simulating underlying brain mechanisms.
Human cognition — Cognitive science is an interdisciplinary field informed by psychology, neuroscience, philosophy, linguistics, and artificial intelligence.
Human cognition — It seeks to integrate the insights of these disciplines and provide a unified perspective.
Human cognition — To this end, it adopts a common conceptualization of minds as information processors, understanding cognition as the manipulation of internal representations.
Human cognition — To bridge disciplinary and methodological divides, it identifies distinct levels of analysis corresponding to different degrees of abstraction.
Human cognition — For example, neuroscientific analysis of the electrochemical activity of brain areas belongs to a concrete level that deals with the biological mechanisms performing computations.
Human cognition — By contrast, the psychological study of the roles of and interactions between high-level processes, such as perception, memory, and reasoning, adopts an abstract perspective.
Human cognition — Cognitive scientists seek to coordinate empirical experiments with theoretical models to produce testable theories that link the different levels.
Human cognition — === Other fields === Many fields of inquiry have subareas dedicated to cognitive phenomena.
Human cognition — For example, cognitive linguistics is a subarea of linguistics that investigates the relation between language and cognition.
Human cognition — It studies the cognitive processes responsible for grammar, conceptualization, language comprehension, and language production.
Human cognition — Similarly, cognitive anthropology examines the connection between culture and cognition, conceptualizing culture as a system of knowledge, beliefs, and values.
Human cognition — It analyzes and compares cultures from this perspective to identify distinctive features of particular societies and the universal patterns shared by all.
Human cognition — Cognitive sociology, a related field, explores how sociocultural factors shape cognitive activity.
Human cognition — Other fields include cognitive archaeology, cognitive architecture, and cognitive biology.
Human cognition — Various branches of philosophy address cognition, including philosophy of mind and epistemology.
Human cognition — Philosophers of mind examine the nature of cognition and related concepts, such as mind, representation, and consciousness.
Human cognition — They are particularly interested in the relation between mind and matter and the problem of how physical states can give rise to conscious experience.
Human cognition — They further ask under what conditions cognitive processes, like perception and reasoning, lead to knowledge.
Human cognition — They explore how psychologists, neuroscientists, and cognitive scientists conduct research and ask about the fundamental concepts and background assumptions underlying these fields.
Human cognition — Education studies is the field of inquiry examining the nature, purposes, practices, and outcomes of education.
Human cognition — It investigates the cognitive development of children and studies how knowledge is transmitted, acquired, and organized.
Human cognition — This discipline overlaps with cognitive psychology and cognitive science because of its interest in learning, covering diverse cognitive processes and skills, such as conceptual change, metacognition, mental models, logical reasoning, and problem solving.
Human cognition — Cognitive learning theories conceptualize learning in terms of information processing.
Human cognition — They analyze how information is encoded, retrieved, and transformed, often with the goal of devising educational practices that optimize learning.
Human cognition — For example, cognitive load theory identifies limitations of working memory as a bottleneck that impedes learning and proposes educational practices to avoid cognitive overload.
Human cognition — It includes the discussion of cognitive tests, which are methods designed to assess cognitive abilities.
Human cognition — For example, IQ tests include tasks involving logical reasoning, verbal comprehension, spatial thinking, and working memory to estimate overall cognitive performance.
Human cognition — The Montreal Cognitive Assessment and the mini–mental state examination are tests to detect cognitive impairment, such as deficits in memory, attention, and language.
Human cognition — Cognitive enhancement encompasses diverse ways to improve mental performance, including biochemical, behavioral, and physical factors.
Human cognition — Biochemical approaches include balanced nutrition and psychoactive substances like caffeine and amphetamine.
Human cognition — Behavioral enhancements cover physical exercise, sufficient sleep, meditation, and cognitive strategies, such as mnemonics.
Human cognition — Physical enhancements encompass invasive and non-invasive brain stimulation as well as neurofeedback and wearable devices.
Human cognition — Cognitive behavior therapy is a psychotherapy that analyzes psychological problems in terms of cognitive processes.
Human cognition — It argues that maladaptive automatic thoughts, cognitive distortions, and unhealthy core beliefs lead to inaccurate interpretations of events and emotional distress.
Human cognition — For example, if a person has an unconscious core belief that they are fundamentally inadequate, they may misinterpret a neutral interaction as a rejection.
Human cognition — Cognitive behavior therapists seek to restructure problematic attitudes by helping clients recognize and modify dysfunctional thought patterns.
Human cognition — Many topics in computer science are relevant to cognition, particularly for approaches that understand cognition in terms of computation and information processing.
Human cognition — Theories of computation examine the nature of computation and explore which problems can be solved computationally.
Human cognition — Computer architecture has parallels with cognitive architecture, providing models of how different components interact to form a functional system.
Human cognition — Another overlap concerns the field of knowledge representation, in which computer scientists explore formal data structures that make knowledge accessible to computational processes.
Human cognition — Artificial intelligence is the capacity of certain computer systems to perform tasks requiring intelligence, such as reasoning and problem-solving.
Human cognition — It includes the field of machine learning, through which computer systems can acquire new abilities not explicitly coded by programmers.
Human cognition — The field of cognitive robotics integrates insights from these subfields to create intelligent robots.
Human cognition — Early work took the form of reflections on the nature and sources of knowledge, proposed divisions of the mind into separate faculties, and analyzed specific cognitive processes, like perception and deductive reasoning.
Human cognition — His student Aristotle (384–322 BCE) explored the nature of perception, studying how the mind integrates sensory data with memory and imagination.
Human cognition — Inspired by Aristotle, Avicenna (980–1037 CE) and Thomas Aquinas (1224–1274 CE) developed faculty psychologies that organized the mind into distinct faculties and analyzed their functions and interactions.
Human cognition — In early modern philosophy, rationalists like René Descartes (1596–1650) and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (1646–1716) argued that the mind has innate knowledge of the world.
Human cognition — This view was opposed by empiricists, like John Locke (1632–1704), who saw the mind as a blank slate that learns everything from experience.
Human cognition — Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) introduced the idea of innate categories that organize all experience and understanding.
Human cognition — Experimental research into cognitive processes began in the late 19th century with Wilhelm Wundt (1832–1920) and his student Edward Bradford Titchener (1867–1927).
Human cognition — They laid the foundations of scientific psychology by introducing controlled laboratory experiments, such as measuring responses and reaction times to stimuli, combined with a rigorous introspective method.
Human cognition — Hermann Ebbinghaus (1850–1909) and Mary Whiton Calkins (1863–1930) pioneered experimental studies of memory.
Human cognition — William James (1842–1910) approached psychological research from a pragmatist perspective, studying everyday experience.
Human cognition — In the early 20th century, Max Wertheimer (1880–1943), Kurt Koffka (1886–1941), and Wolfgang Köhler (1887–1967) formulated Gestalt psychology.
Human cognition — In contrast to earlier experimental approaches that analyzed individual elements, they focused on larger patterns that emerge as the mind actively organizes information into coherent wholes.
Human cognition — Frederic Bartlett (1886–1969) was also interested in how the mind actively transforms information, examining how this process introduces systematic errors into memory.
Human cognition — Difficulties in measuring internal cognitive events led to the rise of behaviorism, which sought to explain observable conduct through stimulus–response patterns without reference to unobservable mental states.
Human cognition — Watson (1878–1958), it dominated psychological research in the first half of the 20th century.
Human cognition — Challenges in explaining complex human behavior prompted a paradigm shift in the 1950s—the cognitive revolution.
Human cognition — Instead of studying stimulus–response patterns, researchers examined how the mind receives, stores, and transforms information, placing cognition at the center of psychological research and resulting in the emergence of cognitive subfields across disciplines.
Human cognition — Jean Piaget (1896–1980) applied these ideas to developmental psychology and proposed a series of cognitive stages through which children pass as they gradually acquire the capacity for abstract thinking.
Human cognition — Donald Broadbent (1926–1993) integrated ideas from the information theory of communication, developed by Claude Shannon (1916–2001) and Warren Weaver (1894–1978), to analyze how perception transmits and filters information.
Human cognition — Simon (1916–2001) helped establish the field of artificial intelligence while demonstrating how computers can model and simulate human problem-solving.
Human cognition — In linguistics, Noam Chomsky (1928–present) examined how the brain processes language, identifying universal patterns of language mechanisms.
Human cognition — These developments across several fields of inquiry led to the formation of cognitive science in the 1970s.
Human cognition — David Marr (1945–1980) helped unify this interdisciplinary field with the tri-level hypothesis, proposing that the distinct disciplines work on different levels of abstraction but are fundamentally concerned with the same phenomena.
Human cognition — The advent of neuroimaging techniques such as fMRI and PET revolutionized the neuroscientific study of cognition, enabling the examination of regional, task-specific brain activity.
Human cognition — Concurrently, advances in computational power and artificial intelligence made possible the design of increasingly complex simulations of cognition and intelligent systems that rival and surpass human cognition in specific tasks.
Human cognition — Cognitive Abilities Screening Instrument Cognitive computing Cognitive holding power Cognitive liberty Cognitive musicology Cognitive shuffle Cognitivism Outline of human intelligence Outline of thought Sex differences in cognition
Embodiment — == Cognitive science == Embodied bilingual language, in cognitive science Embodied cognition, a theory that many aspects of cognition are shaped by the body Embodied cognitive science, seeks to explain the mechanisms underlying intelligent behavior Embodied design, that the actions of the body can play a role in the development of thought and ideas Embodied imagination, a therapeutic form of working with dreams and memories Embodied knowledge, a.k.a. tacit knowledge
Embodiment — == Music and arts == Embodiment 12:14, a Christian Australian metalcore band Embodiment: Collapsing Under the Weight of God, a 2008 album by the band Sculptured Embodied music cognition, in musicology Embodied writing, practices are used by academics and artists to highlight the connection between writing and the body Embodiment, 2015 album by Katerine Duska Embodiment (Enterprise Earth album), 2017 album by Enterprise Earth
Embodiment — == Religion == Divine embodiment, the visualized appearance of the deity assumed in theurgical, tantric, and other mystical practices Incarnation, the embodiment of a deity or spirit in some earthly form, an anthropomorphic form of a god
Embodiment — == Other == Claim (patent), in patent law, embodiment refers to implementation of an invention Embodied agent, an agent with a physical presence in the world (Robotics) Embodied energy, required to produce any goods or services Embodied water or virtual water, the water used in the production of a good or service Personification, an embodiment of an entity, usually in the form of a person
Consciousness — Consciousness, at its simplest, is awareness of a state or object, either internal to oneself or in one's external environment.
Consciousness — However, its nature has led to millennia of analyses, explanations, and debate among philosophers, scientists, and theologians.
Consciousness — Opinions differ about what exactly needs to be studied or even considered consciousness.
Consciousness — In some explanations, it is synonymous with the mind, and at other times, an aspect of it.
Consciousness — In the past, it was one's "inner life", the world of introspection, of private thought, imagination, and volition.
Consciousness — Today, it often includes any kind of cognition, experience, feeling, or perception.
Consciousness — It may be awareness, awareness of awareness, metacognition, or self-awareness, either continuously changing or not.
Consciousness — There is also a medical definition, helping for example to discern "coma" from other states.
Consciousness — The disparate range of research, notions, and speculations raises a curiosity about whether the right questions are being asked.
Consciousness — Examples of the range of descriptions, definitions or explanations are: ordered distinction between self and environment, simple wakefulness, one's sense of selfhood or soul explored by "looking within"; being a metaphorical "stream" of contents, or being a mental state, mental event, or mental process of the brain.
Consciousness — == Etymology == The words "conscious" and "consciousness" in the English language date to the 17th century, and the first recorded use of "conscious" as a simple adjective was applied figuratively to inanimate objects ("the conscious Groves", 1643).
Consciousness — It derived from the Latin conscius (con- "together" and scio "to know") which meant "knowing with" or "having joint or common knowledge with another", especially as in sharing a secret.
Consciousness — Thomas Hobbes in Leviathan (1651) wrote: "Where two, or more men, know of one and the same fact, they are said to be Conscious of it one to another".
Consciousness — There were also many occurrences in Latin writings of the phrase conscius sibi, which translates literally as "knowing with oneself", or in other words "sharing knowledge with oneself about something".
Consciousness — This phrase has the figurative sense of "knowing that one knows", which is something like the modern English word "conscious", but it was rendered into English as "conscious to oneself" or "conscious unto oneself".
Consciousness — For example, Archbishop Ussher wrote in 1613 of "being so conscious unto myself of my great weakness".
Consciousness — The Latin conscientia, literally 'knowledge-with', first appears in Roman juridical texts by writers such as Cicero.
Consciousness — It means a kind of shared knowledge with moral value, specifically what a witness knows of someone else's deeds.
Consciousness — Although René Descartes (1596–1650), writing in Latin, is generally taken to be the first philosopher to use conscientia in a way less like the traditional meaning and more like the way modern English speakers would use "conscience", his meaning is nowhere defined.
Consciousness — In Search after Truth (Regulæ ad directionem ingenii ut et inquisitio veritatis per lumen naturale, Amsterdam 1701) he wrote the word with a gloss: conscientiâ, vel interno testimonio (translatable as "conscience, or internal testimony").
Consciousness — The origin of the modern concept of consciousness is often attributed to John Locke who defined the word in his Essay Concerning Human Understanding, published in 1690, as "the perception of what passes in a man's own mind".
Consciousness — The essay strongly influenced 18th-century British philosophy, and Locke's definition appeared in Samuel Johnson's celebrated Dictionary (1755).
Consciousness — The French term conscience is defined roughly like English "consciousness" in the 1753 volume of Diderot and d'Alembert's Encyclopédie as "the opinion or internal feeling that we ourselves have from what we do".
Consciousness — == Problem of definition == Scholars are divided as to whether Aristotle had a concept of consciousness.
Consciousness — He does not use any single word or terminology that is clearly similar to the phenomenon or concept defined by John Locke.
Consciousness — Victor Caston contends that Aristotle did have a concept more clearly similar to perception.
Consciousness — Modern dictionary definitions of the word consciousness evolved over several centuries and reflect a range of seemingly related meanings, with some differences that have been controversial, such as the distinction between inward awareness and perception of the physical world, or the distinction between conscious and unconscious, or the notion of a mental entity or mental activity that is not physical.
Consciousness — The common-usage definitions of consciousness in Webster's Third New International Dictionary (1966) are as follows:
Consciousness — awareness or perception of an inward psychological or spiritual fact; intuitively perceived knowledge of something in one's inner self inward awareness of an external object, state, or fact concerned awareness; INTEREST, CONCERN—often used with an attributive noun [e.g. class consciousness] the state or activity that is characterized by sensation, emotion, volition, or thought; mind in the broadest possible sense; something in nature that is distinguished from the physical the totality in psychology of sensations, perceptions, ideas, attitudes, and feelings of which an individual or a group is aware at any given time or within a particular time span— waking life (as that to which one returns after sleep, trance, fever) wherein all one's mental powers have returned . . . the part of mental life or psychic content in psychoanalysis that is immediately available to the ego— The Cambridge English Dictionary defines consciousness as "the state of being awake, thinking, and knowing what is happening around you", as well as "the state of understanding and realizing something".
Consciousness — The Oxford Living Dictionary defines consciousness as "[t]he state of being aware of and responsive to one's surroundings", "[a] person's awareness or perception of something", and "[t]he fact of awareness by the mind of itself and the world".
Consciousness — Philosophers have attempted to clarify technical distinctions by using a jargon of their own.
Consciousness — The corresponding entry in the Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy (1998) reads:
Consciousness — Consciousness Philosophers have used the term consciousness for four main topics: knowledge in general, intentionality, introspection (and the knowledge it specifically generates) and phenomenal experience...
Consciousness — Something within one's mind is 'introspectively conscious' just in case one introspects it (or is poised to do so).
Consciousness — Introspection is often thought to deliver one's primary knowledge of one's mental life.
Consciousness — An experience or other mental entity is 'phenomenally conscious' just in case there is 'something it is like' for one to have it.
Consciousness — The clearest examples are: perceptual experience, such as tastings and seeings; bodily-sensational experiences, such as those of pains, tickles and itches; imaginative experiences, such as those of one's own actions or perceptions; and streams of thought, as in the experience of thinking 'in words' or 'in images'.
Consciousness — Introspection and phenomenality seem independent, or dissociable, although this is controversial.
Consciousness — === Traditional metaphors for mind === During the early 19th century, the emerging field of geology inspired a popular metaphor that the mind likewise had hidden layers "which recorded the past of the individual".
Consciousness — By 1875, most psychologists believed that "consciousness was but a small part of mental life", and this idea underlies the goal of Freudian therapy, to expose the unconscious layer of the mind.
Consciousness — Other metaphors from various sciences inspired other analyses of the mind, for example: Johann Friedrich Herbart described ideas as being attracted and repulsed like magnets; John Stuart Mill developed the idea of "mental chemistry" and "mental compounds", and Edward B.
Consciousness — The abstract idea of states of consciousness mirrored the concept of states of matter.
Consciousness — In 1892, William James noted that the "ambiguous word 'content' has been recently invented instead of 'object'" and that the metaphor of mind as a container seemed to minimize the dualistic problem of how "states of consciousness can know" things, or objects; by 1899 psychologists were busily studying the "contents of conscious experience by introspection and experiment".
Consciousness — Another popular metaphor was James's doctrine of the stream of consciousness, with continuity, fringes, and transitions.
Consciousness — James discussed the difficulties of describing and studying psychological phenomena, recognizing that commonly used terminology was a necessary and acceptable starting point towards more precise, scientifically justified language.
Consciousness — The first and foremost concrete fact which every one will affirm to belong to his inner experience is the fact that consciousness of some sort goes on. 'States of mind' succeed each other in him. [...] But everyone knows what the terms mean [only] in a rough way; [...] When I say every 'state' or 'thought' is part of a personal consciousness, 'personal consciousness' is one of the terms in question.
Consciousness — Its meaning we know so long as no one asks us to define it, but to give an accurate account of it is the most difficult of philosophic tasks. [...] The only states of consciousness that we naturally deal with are found in personal consciousnesses, minds, selves, concrete particular I's and you's.
Consciousness — === From introspection to awareness and experience === Prior to the 20th century, philosophers treated the phenomenon of consciousness as the "inner world [of] one's own mind", and introspection was the mind "attending to" itself, an activity seemingly distinct from that of perceiving the 'outer world' and its physical phenomena.
Consciousness — In 1892 William James noted the distinction along with doubts about the inward character of the mind:'Things' have been doubted, but thoughts and feelings have never been doubted.
Consciousness — Everyone assumes that we have direct introspective acquaintance with our thinking activity as such, with our consciousness as something inward and contrasted with the outer objects which it knows.
Consciousness — Yet I must confess that for my part I cannot feel sure of this conclusion. [...] It seems as if consciousness as an inner activity were rather a postulate than a sensibly given fact...
Consciousness — By the 1960s, for many philosophers and psychologists who talked about consciousness, the word no longer meant the 'inner world' but an indefinite, large category called awareness, as in the following example:
Consciousness — It is difficult for modern Western man to grasp that the Greeks really had no concept of consciousness in that they did not class together phenomena as varied as problem solving, remembering, imagining, perceiving, feeling pain, dreaming, and acting on the grounds that all these are manifestations of being aware or being conscious.
Consciousness — Many philosophers and scientists have been unhappy about the difficulty of producing a definition that does not involve circularity or fuzziness.
Consciousness — In The Macmillan Dictionary of Psychology (1989 edition), Stuart Sutherland emphasized external awareness, and expressed a skeptical attitude more than a definition:
Consciousness — The term is impossible to define except in terms that are unintelligible without a grasp of what consciousness means.
Consciousness — Many fall into the trap of equating consciousness with self-consciousness—to be conscious it is only necessary to be aware of the external world.
Consciousness — Consciousness is a fascinating but elusive phenomenon: it is impossible to specify what it is, what it does, or why it has evolved.
Consciousness — Using 'awareness', however, as a definition or synonym of consciousness is not a simple matter:
Consciousness — If awareness of the environment . . . is the criterion of consciousness, then even the protozoans are conscious.
Consciousness — If awareness of awareness is required, then it is doubtful whether the great apes and human infants are conscious.
Consciousness — In 1974, philosopher Thomas Nagel used 'consciousness', 'conscious experience', 'subjective experience' and the 'subjective character of experience' as synonyms for something that "occurs at many levels of animal life ... [although] it is difficult to say in general what provides evidence of it." Nagel's terminology also included what has been described as "the standard 'what it's like' locution" in reference to the impenetrable subjectivity of any organism's experience which Nagel referred to as "inner life" without implying any kind of introspection.
Consciousness — On Nagel's approach, Peter Hacker commented: "Consciousness, thus conceived, is extended to the whole domain of 'experience'—of 'Life' subjectively understood." He regarded this as a "novel analysis of consciousness" and has been particularly critical of Nagel's terminology and its philosophical consequences.
Consciousness — In 2002 he attacked Nagel's 'what it's like' phrase as "malconstructed" and meaningless English—it sounds as if it asks for an analogy, but does not—and he called Nagel's approach logically "misconceived" as a definition of consciousness.
Consciousness — In 2012 Hacker went further and asserted that Nagel had "laid the groundwork for ... forty years of fresh confusion about consciousness" and that "the contemporary philosophical conception of consciousness that is embraced by the 'consciousness studies community' is incoherent".
Consciousness — === Influence on research === Many philosophers have argued that consciousness is a unitary concept that is understood by the majority of people despite the difficulty philosophers have had defining it.
Consciousness — The term 'subjective experience', following Nagel, is amibiguous, as philosophers seem to differ from non-philosophers in their intuitions about its meaning.
Consciousness — Max Velmans proposed that the "everyday understanding of consciousness" uncontroversially "refers to experience itself rather than any particular thing that we observe or experience" and he added that consciousness "is [therefore] exemplified by all the things that we observe or experience", whether thoughts, feelings, or perceptions.
Consciousness — Velmans noted however, as of 2009, that there was a deep level of "confusion and internal division" among experts about the phenomenon of consciousness, because researchers lacked "a sufficiently well-specified use of the term...to agree that they are investigating the same thing".
Consciousness — He argued additionally that "pre-existing theoretical commitments" to competing explanations of consciousness might be a source of bias.
Consciousness — Within the "modern consciousness studies" community the technical phrase 'phenomenal consciousness' is a common synonym for all forms of awareness, or simply 'experience', without differentiating between inner and outer, or between higher and lower types.
Consciousness — With advances in brain research, "the presence or absence of experienced phenomena" of any kind underlies the work of those neuroscientists who seek "to analyze the precise relation of conscious phenomenology to its associated information processing" in the brain.
Consciousness — This neuroscientific goal is to find the "neural correlates of consciousness" (NCC).
Consciousness — One criticism of this goal is that it begins with a theoretical commitment to the neurological origin of all "experienced phenomena" whether inner or outer.
Consciousness — Also, the fact that the easiest 'content of consciousness' to be so analyzed is "the experienced three-dimensional world (the phenomenal world) beyond the body surface" invites another criticism, that most consciousness research since the 1990s, perhaps because of bias, has focused on processes of external perception.
Consciousness — From a history of psychology perspective, Julian Jaynes rejected popular but "superficial views of consciousness" especially those which equate it with "that vaguest of terms, experience".
Consciousness — In 1976 he insisted that if not for introspection, which for decades had been ignored or taken for granted rather than explained, there could be no "conception of what consciousness is" and in 1990, he reaffirmed the traditional idea of the phenomenon called 'consciousness', writing that "its denotative definition is, as it was for René Descartes, John Locke, and David Hume, what is introspectable".
Consciousness — Jaynes saw consciousness as an important but small part of human mentality, and he asserted: "there can be no progress in the science of consciousness until ... what is introspectable [is] sharply distinguished" from the unconscious processes of cognition such as perception, reactive awareness and attention, and automatic forms of learning, problem-solving, and decision-making.
Consciousness — The cognitive science point of view—with an inter-disciplinary perspective involving fields such as psychology, linguistics and anthropology—requires no agreed definition of "consciousness" but studies the interaction of many processes besides perception.
Consciousness — For some researchers, consciousness is linked to some kind of "selfhood", for example to certain pragmatic issues such as the feeling of agency and the effects of regret and action on experience of one's own body or social identity.
Consciousness — Similarly Daniel Kahneman, who focused on systematic errors in perception, memory and decision-making, has differentiated between two kinds of mental processes, or cognitive "systems": the "fast" activities that are primary, automatic and "cannot be turned off", and the "slow", deliberate, effortful activities of a secondary system "often associated with the subjective experience of agency, choice, and concentration".
Consciousness — Kahneman's two systems have been described as "roughly corresponding to unconscious and conscious processes".
Consciousness — While System 1 can be impulsive, "System 2 is in charge of self-control", and "When we think of ourselves, we identify with System 2, the conscious, reasoning self that has beliefs, makes choices, and decides what to think about and what to do".
Consciousness — Some have argued that we should eliminate the concept from our understanding of the mind, a position known as consciousness semanticism.
Consciousness — === Medical definition === In medicine, a "level of consciousness" terminology is used to describe a patient's arousal and responsiveness, which can be seen as a continuum of states ranging from full alertness and comprehension, through disorientation, delirium, loss of meaningful communication, and finally loss of movement in response to painful stimuli.
Consciousness — Issues of practical concern include how the level of consciousness can be assessed in severely ill, comatose, or anesthetized people, and how to treat conditions in which consciousness is impaired or disrupted.
Consciousness — The degree or level of consciousness is measured by standardized behavior observation scales such as the Glasgow Coma Scale.
Consciousness — == Philosophy of mind == While historically philosophers have defended various views on consciousness, surveys indicate that physicalism is now the dominant position among contemporary philosophers of mind.
Consciousness — For an overview of the field, approaches often include both historical perspectives (e.g., Descartes, Locke, Kant) and organization by key issues in contemporary debates.
Consciousness — An alternative is to focus primarily on current philosophical stances and empirical findings.
Consciousness — === Coherence of the concept === Philosophers differ from non-philosophers in their intuitions about what consciousness is.
Consciousness — While most people have a strong intuition for the existence of what they refer to as consciousness, skeptics argue that this intuition is too narrow, either because the concept of consciousness is embedded in our intuitions, or because we all are illusions.
Consciousness — Gilbert Ryle, for example, argued that traditional understanding of consciousness depends on a Cartesian dualist outlook that improperly distinguishes between mind and body, or between mind and world.
Consciousness — He proposed that we speak not of minds, bodies, and the world, but of entities, or identities, acting in the world.
Consciousness — Thus, by speaking of "consciousness" we end up leading ourselves by thinking that there is any sort of thing as consciousness separated from behavioral and linguistic understandings.
Consciousness — === Types === Ned Block argues that discussions on consciousness have often failed properly to distinguish phenomenal consciousness from access consciousness.
Consciousness — The terms had been used before Block used them, but he adopted the short forms P-consciousness and A-consciousness.
Consciousness — P-consciousness is raw experience: it is moving, colored forms, sounds, sensations, emotions and feelings with our bodies and responses at the center.
Consciousness — These experiences, considered independently of any impact on behavior, are called qualia.
Consciousness — A-consciousness is the phenomenon whereby information in our minds is accessible for verbal report, reasoning, and the control of behavior.
Consciousness — So, when we perceive, information about what we perceive is access conscious; when we introspect, information about our thoughts is access conscious; when we remember, information about the past is access conscious, and so on.
Consciousness — Block adds that P-consciousness does not allow of easy definition: he admits that he "cannot define P-consciousness in any remotely noncircular way.
Consciousness — Although some philosophers, such as Daniel Dennett, have disputed the validity of this distinction, others have broadly accepted it.
Consciousness — David Chalmers has argued that A-consciousness can in principle be understood in mechanistic terms, but that understanding P-consciousness is much more challenging: he calls this the hard problem of consciousness.
Consciousness — Some philosophers believe that Block's two types of consciousness are not the end of the story.
Consciousness — William Lycan, for example, argued in his book Consciousness and Experience that at least eight clearly distinct types of consciousness can be identified (organism consciousness; control consciousness; consciousness of; state/event consciousness; reportability; introspective consciousness; subjective consciousness; self-consciousness)—and that even this list omits several more obscure forms.
Consciousness — There is also debate over whether or not A-consciousness and P-consciousness always coexist or if they can exist separately.
Consciousness — Although P-consciousness without A-consciousness is more widely accepted, there have been some hypothetical examples of A without P.
Consciousness — Block, for instance, suggests the case of a "zombie" that is computationally identical to a person but without any subjectivity.
Consciousness — However, he remains somewhat skeptical concluding "I don't know whether there are any actual cases of A-consciousness without P-consciousness, but I hope I have illustrated their conceptual possibility".
Consciousness — === Distinguishing consciousness from its contents === Sam Harris observes: "At the level of your experience, you are not a body of cells, organelles, and atoms; you are consciousness and its ever-changing contents".
Consciousness — Seen in this way, consciousness is a subjectively experienced, ever-present field in which things (the contents of consciousness) come and go.
Consciousness — Christopher Tricker argues that this field of consciousness is symbolized by the mythical bird that opens the Daoist classic the Zhuangzi.
Consciousness — This bird's name is Of a Flock (peng 鵬), yet its back is countless thousands of miles across and its wings are like clouds arcing across the heavens. "Like Of a Flock, whose wings arc across the heavens, the wings of your consciousness span to the horizon.
Consciousness — At the same time, the wings of every other being's consciousness span to the horizon.
Consciousness — Mental processes (such as consciousness) and physical processes (such as brain events) seem to be correlated, however the specific nature of the connection is unknown.
Consciousness — The first influential philosopher to discuss this question specifically was Descartes, and the answer he gave is known as mind–body dualism.
Consciousness — Descartes proposed that consciousness resides within an immaterial domain he called res cogitans (the realm of thought), in contrast to the domain of material things, which he called res extensa (the realm of extension).
Consciousness — He suggested that the interaction between these two domains occurs inside the brain, perhaps in a small midline structure called the pineal gland.
Consciousness — Although it is widely accepted that Descartes explained the problem cogently, few later philosophers have been happy with his solution, and his ideas about the pineal gland have especially been ridiculed.
Consciousness — Proposed solutions can be divided broadly into two categories: dualist solutions that maintain Descartes's rigid distinction between the realm of consciousness and the realm of matter but give different answers for how the two realms relate to each other; and monist solutions that maintain that there is really only one realm of being, of which consciousness and matter are both aspects.
Consciousness — The two main types of dualism are substance dualism (which holds that the mind is formed of a distinct type of substance not governed by the laws of physics), and property dualism (which holds that the laws of physics are universally valid but cannot be used to explain the mind).
Consciousness — The three main types of monism are physicalism (which holds that the mind is made out of matter), idealism (which holds that only thought or experience truly exists, and matter is merely an illusion), and neutral monism (which holds that both mind and matter are aspects of a distinct essence that is itself identical to neither of them).
Consciousness — There are also, however, a large number of idiosyncratic theories that cannot cleanly be assigned to any of these schools of thought.
Consciousness — Since the dawn of Newtonian science with its vision of simple mechanical principles governing the entire universe, some philosophers have been tempted by the idea that consciousness could be explained in purely physical terms.
Consciousness — The first influential writer to propose such an idea explicitly was Julien Offray de La Mettrie, in his book Man a Machine (L'homme machine).
Consciousness — The most influential modern physical theories of consciousness are based on psychology and neuroscience.
Consciousness — Theories proposed by neuroscientists such as Gerald Edelman and Antonio Damasio, and by philosophers such as Daniel Dennett, seek to explain consciousness in terms of neural events occurring within the brain.
Consciousness — Many other neuroscientists, such as Christof Koch, have explored the neural basis of consciousness without attempting to frame all-encompassing global theories.
Consciousness — At the same time, computer scientists working in the field of artificial intelligence have pursued the goal of creating digital computer programs that can simulate or embody consciousness.
Consciousness — A few theoretical physicists have argued that classical physics is intrinsically incapable of explaining the holistic aspects of consciousness, but that quantum theory may provide the missing ingredients.
Consciousness — Several theorists have therefore proposed quantum mind (QM) theories of consciousness.
Consciousness — Notable theories falling into this category include the holonomic brain theory of Karl Pribram and David Bohm, and the Orch-OR theory formulated by Stuart Hameroff and Roger Penrose.
Consciousness — Some of these QM theories offer descriptions of phenomenal consciousness, as well as QM interpretations of access consciousness.
Consciousness — Briegel could falsify proposals such as those of Hameroff, which rely on quantum entanglement in protein.
Consciousness — At the present time many scientists and philosophers consider the arguments for an important role of quantum phenomena to be unconvincing.
Consciousness — Empirical evidence is against the notion of quantum consciousness, an experiment about wave function collapse led by Catalina Curceanu in 2022 suggests that quantum consciousness, as suggested by Roger Penrose and Stuart Hameroff, is highly implausible.
Consciousness — Apart from the general question of the "hard problem" of consciousness (which is, roughly speaking, the question of how mental experience can arise from a physical basis), a more specialized question is how to square the subjective notion that we are in control of our decisions (at least in some small measure) with the customary view of causality that subsequent events are caused by prior events.
Consciousness — The topic of free will is the philosophical and scientific examination of this conundrum.
Consciousness — Many philosophers consider experience to be the essence of consciousness, and believe that experience can only fully be known from the inside, subjectively.
Consciousness — The problem of other minds is a philosophical problem traditionally stated as the following epistemological question: Given that I can only observe the behavior of others, how can I know that others have minds?
Consciousness — The problem of other minds is particularly acute for people who believe in the possibility of philosophical zombies, that is, people who think it is possible in principle to have an entity that is physically indistinguishable from a human being and behaves like a human being in every way but nevertheless lacks consciousness.
Consciousness — Related issues have also been studied extensively by Greg Littmann of the University of Illinois, and by Colin Allen (a professor at the University of Pittsburgh) regarding the literature and research studying artificial intelligence in androids.
Consciousness — The most commonly given answer is that we attribute consciousness to other people because we see that they resemble us in appearance and behavior; we reason that if they look like us and act like us, they must be like us in other ways, including having experiences of the sort that we do.
Consciousness — For one thing, it seems to violate the principle of parsimony, by postulating an invisible entity that is not necessary to explain what we observe.
Consciousness — Some philosophers, such as Daniel Dennett in a research paper titled "The Unimagined Preposterousness of Zombies", argue that people who give this explanation do not really understand what they are saying.
Consciousness — More broadly, philosophers who do not accept the possibility of zombies generally believe that consciousness is reflected in behavior (including verbal behavior), and that we attribute consciousness on the basis of behavior.
Consciousness — A more straightforward way of saying this is that we attribute experiences to people because of what they can do, including the fact that they can tell us about their experiences.
Consciousness — It is basically a quantity or property of something as perceived or experienced by an individual, like the scent of rose, the taste of wine, or the pain of a headache.
Consciousness — The philosopher and scientist Daniel Dennett describes them as "the way things seem to us", while philosopher and cognitive scientist David Chalmers expanded on qualia as the "hard problem of consciousness" in the 1990s.
Consciousness — When qualia is experienced, activity is simulated in the brain, and these processes are called neural correlates of consciousness (NCCs).
Consciousness — Many scientific studies have been done to attempt to link particular brain regions with emotions or experiences.
Consciousness — Species which experience qualia are said to have sentience, which is central to the animal rights movement, because it includes the ability to experience pain and suffering.
Consciousness — An unsolved problem in the philosophy of consciousness is how it relates to the nature of personal identity.
Consciousness — This includes questions regarding whether someone is the "same person" from moment to moment.
Consciousness — If that is the case, another question is what exactly the "identity carrier" is that makes a conscious being "the same" being from one moment to the next.
Consciousness — The problem of determining personal identity also includes questions such as Benj Hellie's vertiginous question, which can be summarized as "Why am I me and not someone else?".
Consciousness — The philosophical problems regarding the nature of personal identity have been extensively discussed by Thomas Nagel in his book The View from Nowhere.
Consciousness — A common view of personal identity is that an individual has a continuous identity that persists from moment to moment, with an individual having a continuous identity consisting of a line segment stretching across time from birth to death.
Consciousness — In the case of an afterlife as described in Abrahamic religions, one's personal identity is believed to stretch infinitely into the future, forming a ray or line.
Consciousness — This notion of identity is similar to the form of dualism advocated by René Descartes.
Consciousness — However, some philosophers argue that this common notion of personal identity is unfounded.
Consciousness — Kolak refers to the aforementioned notion of personal identity being linear as "Closed individualism".
Consciousness — Another view of personal identity according to Kolak is "Empty individualism", in which one's personal identity only exists for a single moment of time.
Consciousness — However, Kolak advocates for a view of personal identity called Open individualism, in which all consciousness is in reality a single being and individual personal identity in reality does not exist at all.
Consciousness — Another philosopher who has contested the notion of personal identity is Derek Parfit.
Consciousness — In his book Reasons and Persons, he describes a thought experiment known as the teletransportation paradox.
Consciousness — In Buddhist philosophy, the concept of anattā refers to the idea that the self is an illusion.
Consciousness — Other philosophers have argued that Hellie's vertiginous question has a number of philosophical implications relating to the metaphysical nature of consciousness.
Consciousness — Christian List argues that the vertiginous question and the existence of first-personal facts is evidence against physicalism, and evidence against other third-personal metaphysical pictures, including standard versions of dualism.
Consciousness — List also argues that the vertiginous question implies a "quadrilemma" for theories of consciousness.
Consciousness — He claims that at most three of the following metaphysical claims can be true: 'first-person realism', 'non-solipsism', 'non-fragmentation', and 'one world' – and at least one of these four must be false.
Consciousness — List has proposed a model he calls the "many-worlds theory of consciousness" in order to reconcile the subjective nature of consciousness without lapsing into solipsism.
Consciousness — Vincent Conitzer argues that the nature of identity is connected to A series and B series theories of time, and that A-theory being true implies that the "I" is metaphysically distinguished from other perspectives.
Consciousness — Other philosophical theories regarding the metaphysical nature of self are Caspar Hare's theories of perspectival realism, in which things within perceptual awareness have a defining intrinsic property that exists absolutely and not relative to anything, and egocentric presentism, in which the experiences of other individuals are not present in the way that one's current perspective is.
Consciousness — == Scientific study == For many decades, consciousness as a research topic was avoided by the majority of mainstream scientists, because of a general feeling that a phenomenon defined in subjective terms could not properly be studied using objective experimental methods.
Consciousness — In 1975 George Mandler published an influential psychological study which distinguished between slow, serial, and limited conscious processes and fast, parallel and extensive unconscious ones.
Consciousness — The Science and Religion Forum 1984 annual conference, 'From Artificial Intelligence to Human Consciousness' identified the nature of consciousness as a matter for investigation; Donald Michie was a keynote speaker.
Consciousness — Starting in the 1980s, an expanding community of neuroscientists and psychologists have associated themselves with a field called Consciousness Studies, giving rise to a stream of experimental work published in books, journals such as Consciousness and Cognition, Frontiers in Consciousness Research, Psyche, and the Journal of Consciousness Studies, along with regular conferences organized by groups such as the Association for the Scientific Study of Consciousness and the Society for Consciousness Studies.
Consciousness — Modern medical and psychological investigations into consciousness are based on psychological experiments (including, for example, the investigation of priming effects using subliminal stimuli), and on case studies of alterations in consciousness produced by trauma, illness, or drugs.
Consciousness — The first identifies the content of consciousness with the experiences that are reported by human subjects; the second makes use of the concept of consciousness that has been developed by neurologists and other medical professionals who deal with patients whose behavior is impaired.
Consciousness — In either case, the ultimate goals are to develop techniques for assessing consciousness objectively in humans as well as other animals, and to understand the neural and psychological mechanisms that underlie it.
Consciousness — Experimental research on consciousness presents special difficulties, due to the lack of a universally accepted operational definition.
Consciousness — In the majority of experiments that are specifically about consciousness, the subjects are human, and the criterion used is verbal report: in other words, subjects are asked to describe their experiences, and their descriptions are treated as observations of the contents of consciousness.
Consciousness — For example, subjects who stare continuously at a Necker cube usually report that they experience it "flipping" between two 3D configurations, even though the stimulus itself remains the same.
Consciousness — The objective is to understand the relationship between the conscious awareness of stimuli (as indicated by verbal report) and the effects the stimuli have on brain activity and behavior.
Consciousness — In several paradigms, such as the technique of response priming, the behavior of subjects is clearly influenced by stimuli for which they report no awareness, and suitable experimental manipulations can lead to increasing priming effects despite decreasing prime identification (double dissociation).
Consciousness — Verbal report is widely considered to be the most reliable indicator of consciousness, but it raises a number of issues.
Consciousness — For one thing, if verbal reports are treated as observations, akin to observations in other branches of science, then the possibility arises that they may contain errors—but it is difficult to make sense of the idea that subjects could be wrong about their own experiences, and even more difficult to see how such an error could be detected.
Consciousness — Daniel Dennett has argued for an approach he calls heterophenomenology, which means treating verbal reports as stories that may or may not be true, but his ideas about how to do this have not been widely adopted.
Consciousness — Another issue with verbal report as a criterion is that it restricts the field of study to humans who have language: this approach cannot be used to study consciousness in other species, pre-linguistic children, or people with types of brain damage that impair language.
Consciousness — As a third issue, philosophers who dispute the validity of the Turing test may feel that it is possible, at least in principle, for verbal report to be dissociated from consciousness entirely: a philosophical zombie may give detailed verbal reports of awareness in the absence of any genuine awareness.
Consciousness — Although verbal report is in practice the "gold standard" for ascribing consciousness, it is not the only possible criterion.
Consciousness — In medicine, consciousness is assessed as a combination of verbal behavior, arousal, brain activity, and purposeful movement.
Consciousness — The last three of these can be used as indicators of consciousness when verbal behavior is absent.
Consciousness — The scientific literature regarding the neural bases of arousal and purposeful movement is very extensive.
Consciousness — Their reliability as indicators of consciousness is disputed, however, due to numerous studies showing that alert human subjects can be induced to behave purposefully in a variety of ways in spite of reporting a complete lack of awareness.
Consciousness — Studies related to the neuroscience of free will have also shown that the influence consciousness has on decision-making is not always straightforward.
Consciousness — Another approach applies specifically to the study of self-awareness, that is, the ability to distinguish oneself from others.
Consciousness — In the 1970s Gordon Gallup developed an operational test for self-awareness, known as the mirror test.
Consciousness — The test examines whether animals are able to differentiate between seeing themselves in a mirror versus seeing other animals.
Consciousness — The classic example involves placing a spot of coloring on the skin or fur near the individual's forehead and seeing if they attempt to remove it or at least touch the spot, thus indicating that they recognize that the individual they are seeing in the mirror is themselves.
Consciousness — Humans (older than 18 months) and other great apes, bottlenose dolphins, orcas, pigeons, European magpies and elephants have all been observed to pass this test.
Consciousness — While some other animals like pigs have been shown to find food by looking into the mirror.
Consciousness — Contingency awareness is another such approach, which is basically the conscious understanding of one's actions and its effects on one's environment.
Consciousness — The brain processes during contingency awareness and learning is believed to rely on an intact medial temporal lobe and age.
Consciousness — A study done in 2020 involving transcranial direct current stimulation, Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and eyeblink classical conditioning supported the idea that the parietal cortex serves as a substrate for contingency awareness and that age-related disruption of this region is sufficient to impair awareness.
Consciousness — A major part of the scientific literature on consciousness consists of studies that examine the relationship between the experiences reported by subjects and the activity that simultaneously takes place in their brains—that is, studies of the neural correlates of consciousness.
Consciousness — The hope is to find that activity in a particular part of the brain, or a particular pattern of global brain activity, which will be strongly predictive of conscious awareness.
Consciousness — Several brain imaging techniques, such as EEG and fMRI, have been used for physical measures of brain activity in these studies.
Consciousness — Another idea that has drawn attention for several decades is that consciousness is associated with high-frequency (gamma band) oscillations in brain activity.
Consciousness — This idea arose from proposals in the 1980s, by Christof von der Malsburg and Wolf Singer, that gamma oscillations could solve the so-called binding problem, by linking information represented in different parts of the brain into a unified experience.
Consciousness — Rodolfo Llinás, for example, proposed that consciousness results from recurrent thalamo-cortical resonance where the specific thalamocortical systems (content) and the non-specific (centromedial thalamus) thalamocortical systems (context) interact in the gamma band frequency via synchronous oscillations.
Consciousness — A number of studies have shown that activity in primary sensory areas of the brain is not sufficient to produce consciousness: it is possible for subjects to report a lack of awareness even when areas such as the primary visual cortex (V1) show clear electrical responses to a stimulus.
Consciousness — Higher brain areas are seen as more promising, especially the prefrontal cortex, which is involved in a range of higher cognitive functions collectively known as executive functions.
Consciousness — There is substantial evidence that a "top-down" flow of neural activity (i.e., activity propagating from the frontal cortex to sensory areas) is more predictive of conscious awareness than a "bottom-up" flow of activity.
Consciousness — The prefrontal cortex is not the only candidate area, however: studies by Nikos Logothetis and his colleagues have shown, for example, that visually responsive neurons in parts of the temporal lobe reflect the visual perception in the situation when conflicting visual images are presented to different eyes (i.e., bistable percepts during binocular rivalry).
Consciousness — Furthermore, top-down feedback from higher to lower visual brain areas may be weaker or absent in the peripheral visual field, as suggested by some experimental data and theoretical arguments; nevertheless humans can perceive visual inputs in the peripheral visual field arising from bottom-up V1 neural activities.
Consciousness — Meanwhile, bottom-up V1 activities for the central visual fields can be vetoed, and thus made invisible to perception, by the top-down feedback, when these bottom-up signals are inconsistent with the brain's internal model of the visual world.
Consciousness — In contrast to the raw electrical responses that do not correlate with consciousness, the modulation of these responses by other stimuli correlates surprisingly well with an important aspect of consciousness: namely with the phenomenal experience of stimulus intensity (brightness, contrast).
Consciousness — In the research group of Danko Nikolić it has been shown that some of the changes in the subjectively perceived brightness correlated with the modulation of firing rates while others correlated with the modulation of neural synchrony.
Consciousness — An fMRI investigation suggested that these findings were strictly limited to the primary visual areas.
Consciousness — This indicates that, in the primary visual areas, changes in firing rates and synchrony can be considered as neural correlates of qualia—at least for some type of qualia.
Consciousness — In 2013, the perturbational complexity index (PCI) was proposed, a measure of the algorithmic complexity of the electrophysiological response of the cortex to transcranial magnetic stimulation.
Consciousness — This measure was shown to be higher in individuals that are awake, in REM sleep or in a locked-in state than in those who are in deep sleep or in a vegetative state, making it potentially useful as a quantitative assessment of consciousness states.
Consciousness — Assuming that not only humans but even some non-mammalian species are conscious, a number of evolutionary approaches to the problem of neural correlates of consciousness open up.
Consciousness — For example, assuming that birds are conscious—a common assumption among neuroscientists and ethologists due to the extensive cognitive repertoire of birds—there are comparative neuroanatomical ways to validate some of the principal, currently competing, mammalian consciousness–brain theories.
Consciousness — The rationale for such a comparative study is that the avian brain deviates structurally from the mammalian brain.
Consciousness — The general conclusion from the study by Butler, et al. is that some of the major theories for the mammalian brain also appear to be valid for the avian brain.
Consciousness — The structures assumed to be critical for consciousness in mammalian brains have homologous counterparts in avian brains.
Consciousness — Thus the main portions of the theories of Crick and Koch, Edelman and Tononi, and Cotterill seem to be compatible with the assumption that birds are conscious.
Consciousness — Edelman also differentiates between what he calls primary consciousness (which is a trait shared by humans and non-human animals) and higher-order consciousness as it appears in humans alone along with human language capacity.
Consciousness — Certain aspects of the three theories, however, seem less easy to apply to the hypothesis of avian consciousness.
Consciousness — For instance, the suggestion by Crick and Koch that layer 5 neurons of the mammalian brain have a special role, seems difficult to apply to the avian brain, since the avian homologs have a different morphology.
Consciousness — Likewise, the theory of Eccles seems incompatible, since a structural homolog/analogue to the dendron has not been found in avian brains.
Consciousness — The assumption of an avian consciousness also brings the reptilian brain into focus.
Consciousness — The reason is the structural continuity between avian and reptilian brains, meaning that the phylogenetic origin of consciousness may be earlier than suggested by many leading neuroscientists.
Consciousness — Joaquin Fuster of UCLA has advocated the position of the importance of the prefrontal cortex in humans, along with the areas of Wernicke and Broca, as being of particular importance to the development of human language capacities neuro-anatomically necessary for the emergence of higher-order consciousness in humans.
Consciousness — A study in 2016 looked at lesions in specific areas of the brainstem that were associated with coma and vegetative states.
Consciousness — A small region of the rostral dorsolateral pontine tegmentum in the brainstem was suggested to drive consciousness through functional connectivity with two cortical regions, the left ventral anterior insular cortex, and the pregenual anterior cingulate cortex.
Consciousness — Krista and Tatiana Hogan have a unique thalamic connection that may provide insight into the philosophical and neurological foundations of consciousness.
Consciousness — It has been argued that there's no empirical test that can conclusively establish that for some sensations, the twins share one token experience rather than two exactly matching token experiences.
Consciousness — Yet background considerations about the way the brain has specific locations for conscious contents, combined with the evident overlapping pathways in the twins' brains, arguably implies that the twins share some conscious experiences.
Consciousness — If this is true, then the twins may offer a proof of concept for how experiences in general could be shared between brains.
Consciousness — However academic definitions do exist, from Tononi's integrated information theory, Craig MacKenzie, and Cleeremans and Jimenez - the latter being a Definition of Learning with remarkable similarity to both Tononi and MacKenzie's definitions.
Consciousness — Both Bernard Baars and Igor Aleksander worked out the aspects necessary for consciousness.
Consciousness — according to Integrated information theory (IIT), consciousness requires a grouping of elements within a system that have physical cause-effect power upon one another.
Consciousness — This in turn implies that only reentrant architecture consisting of feedback loops, whether neural or computational, will realize consciousness.
Consciousness — Consciousness is the capacity to generate desires and decisions about perceived or imagined realities by distinguishing self from non-self through the use of perception, memory and imagination. ...
Consciousness — According to Axel Cleeremans and Luis Jiménez, learning is defined as: a set of phylogenetically advanced adaptation processes that critically depend on an evolved sensitivity to subjective experience so as to enable agents to afford flexible control over their actions in complex, unpredictable environments.
Consciousness — This definition is notable for its similarity to the global workspace theory (GWT) theatre analogy
Consciousness — Adrian Doerig and colleagues list 13 notable theories, while Anil Seth and Tim Bayne list 22 notable theories.
Consciousness — ==== Global workspace theory ==== Global workspace theory (GWT) is a cognitive architecture and theory of consciousness proposed by the cognitive psychologist Bernard Baars in 1988.
Consciousness — Baars explains the theory with the metaphor of a theater, with conscious processes represented by an illuminated stage.
Consciousness — This theater integrates inputs from a variety of unconscious and otherwise autonomous networks in the brain and then broadcasts them to unconscious networks (represented in the metaphor by a broad, unlit "audience").
Consciousness — The theory has since been expanded upon by other scientists including cognitive neuroscientist Stanislas Dehaene and Lionel Naccache.
Consciousness — ==== Integrated information theory ==== Integrated information theory (IIT), pioneered by neuroscientist Giulio Tononi in 2004, postulates that consciousness resides in the information being processed and arises once the information reaches a certain level of complexity.
Consciousness — IIT proposes a 1:1 mapping between conscious states and precise, formal mathematical descriptions of those mental states.
Consciousness — Proponents of this model suggest that it may provide a physical grounding for consciousness in neurons, as they provide the mechanism by which information is integrated.
Consciousness — This also relates to the "hard problem of consciousness" proposed by David Chalmers.
Consciousness — In 2023, 124 scholars signed a letter saying that IIT gets disproportionate media attention relative to its supporting empirical evidence, and called it "pseudoscience", arguing that its core assumptions are not adequately testable.
Consciousness — This led to academic debate, as some other researchers objected to the "pseudoscience" characterization.
Consciousness — ==== Orchestrated objective reduction ==== Orchestrated objective reduction (Orch-OR), or the quantum theory of mind, was proposed by scientists Roger Penrose and Stuart Hameroff, and states that consciousness originates at the quantum level inside neurons.
Consciousness — The mechanism is held to be a quantum process called objective reduction that is orchestrated by cellular structures called microtubules, which form the cytoskeleton around which the brain is built.
Consciousness — The duo proposed that these quantum processes accounted for creativity, innovation, and problem-solving abilities.
Consciousness — In 2014, the discovery of quantum vibrations inside microtubules gave new life to the argument.
Consciousness — However, scientists and philosophers have criticized Penrose's interpretation of Gödel's theorem and his conclusion that quantum phenomena play a role in human cognition.
Consciousness — ==== Attention schema theory ==== In 2011, Michael Graziano and Kastner proposed the "attention schema" theory of awareness.
Consciousness — Graziano went on to publish an expanded discussion of this theory in his book "Consciousness and the Social Brain".
Consciousness — In that theory, specific cortical areas, notably in the superior temporal sulcus and the temporo-parietal junction, are used to build the construct of awareness and attribute it to other people.
Consciousness — Damage to these cortical regions can lead to deficits in consciousness such as hemispatial neglect.
Consciousness — In the attention schema theory, the value of explaining the feature of awareness and attributing it to a person is to gain a useful predictive model of that person's attentional processing.
Consciousness — Attention is a style of information processing in which a brain focuses its resources on a limited set of interrelated signals.
Consciousness — Awareness, in this theory, is a useful, simplified schema that represents attentional states.
Consciousness — To be aware of X is explained by constructing a model of one's attentional focus on X.
Consciousness — ==== Entropic brain theory ==== The entropic brain is a theory of conscious states informed by neuroimaging research with psychedelic drugs.
Consciousness — The theory suggests that the brain in primary states such as rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, early psychosis and under the influence of psychedelic drugs, is in a disordered state; normal waking consciousness constrains some of this freedom and makes possible metacognitive functions such as internal self-administered reality testing and self-awareness.
Consciousness — Criticism has included questioning whether the theory has been adequately tested.
Consciousness — ==== Projective consciousness model ==== In 2017, work by David Rudrauf and colleagues, including Karl Friston, applied the active inference paradigm to consciousness, leading to the projective consciousness model (PCM), a model of how sensory data is integrated with priors in a process of projective transformation.
Consciousness — The authors argue that, while their model identifies a key relationship between computation and phenomenology, it does not completely solve the hard problem of consciousness or completely close the explanatory gap.
Consciousness — ==== Claustrum being the conductor for consciousness ==== In 2004, a proposal was made by molecular biologist Francis Crick (co-discoverer of the double helix), which stated that to bind together an individual's experience, a conductor of an orchestra is required.
Consciousness — Together with neuroscientist Christof Koch, he proposed that this conductor would have to collate information rapidly from various regions of the brain.
Consciousness — The proposal is backed by a study done in 2014, where a team at the George Washington University induced unconsciousness in a 54-year-old woman suffering from intractable epilepsy by stimulating her claustrum.
Consciousness — The woman underwent depth electrode implantation and electrical stimulation mapping.
Consciousness — The electrode between the left claustrum and anterior-dorsal insula was the one which induced unconsciousness.
Consciousness — Correlation for interactions affecting medial parietal and posterior frontal channels during stimulation increased significantly as well.
Consciousness — Their findings suggested that the left claustrum or anterior insula is an important part of a network that subserves consciousness, and that disruption of consciousness is related to increased EEG signal synchrony within frontal-parietal networks.
Consciousness — A study published in 2022 opposed the idea Claustrum is the seat of consciousness but instead concluded that it is more like a "router" transferring command and information across the brain.
Consciousness — The study showed that when the Claustrum is disabled, complex tasks could not be performed.
Consciousness — === Biological function and evolution === The emergence of consciousness during biological evolution remains a topic of ongoing scientific inquiry.
Consciousness — The survival value of consciousness is still a matter of exploration and understanding.
Consciousness — While consciousness appears to play a crucial role in human cognition, decision-making, and self-awareness, its adaptive significance across different species remains a subject of debate.
Consciousness — Thomas Henry Huxley for example defends in an essay titled "On the Hypothesis that Animals are Automata, and its History" an epiphenomenalist theory of consciousness, according to which consciousness is a causally inert effect of neural activity—"as the steam-whistle which accompanies the work of a locomotive engine is without influence upon its machinery".
Consciousness — To this William James objects in his essay Are We Automata? by stating an evolutionary argument for mind-brain interaction implying that if the preservation and development of consciousness in the biological evolution is a result of natural selection, it is plausible that consciousness has not only been influenced by neural processes, but has had a survival value itself; and it could only have had this if it had been efficacious.
Consciousness — Karl Popper develops a similar evolutionary argument in the book The Self and Its Brain.
Consciousness — It has been argued that consciousness emerged (i) exclusively with the first humans, (ii) exclusively with the first mammals, (iii) independently in mammals and birds, or (iv) with the first reptiles.
Consciousness — Other authors date the origins of consciousness to the first animals with nervous systems or early vertebrates in the Cambrian over 500 million years ago.
Consciousness — Donald Griffin suggests in his book Animal Minds a gradual evolution of consciousness.
Consciousness — Further exploration of the origins of consciousness, particularly in molluscs, has been done by Peter Godfrey Smith in his book Metazoa.
Consciousness — Regarding the primary function of conscious processing, a recurring idea in recent theories is that phenomenal states somehow integrate neural activities and information-processing that would otherwise be independent.
Consciousness — Another example has been proposed by Gerald Edelman called dynamic core hypothesis which puts emphasis on reentrant connections that reciprocally link areas of the brain in a massively parallel manner.
Consciousness — Edelman also stresses the importance of the evolutionary emergence of higher-order consciousness in humans from the historically older trait of primary consciousness which humans share with non-human animals (see Neural correlates section above).
Consciousness — These theories of integrative function present solutions to two classic problems associated with consciousness: differentiation and unity.
Consciousness — They show how our conscious experience can discriminate between a virtually unlimited number of different possible scenes and details (differentiation) because it integrates those details from our sensory systems, while the integrative nature of consciousness in this view easily explains how our experience can seem unified as one whole despite all of these individual parts.
Consciousness — However, it remains unspecified which kinds of information are integrated in a conscious manner and which kinds can be integrated without consciousness.
Consciousness — Nor is it explained what specific causal role conscious integration plays, nor why the same functionality cannot be achieved without consciousness.
Consciousness — Not all kinds of information are capable of being disseminated consciously (e.g., neural activity related to vegetative functions, reflexes, unconscious motor programs, low-level perceptual analyzes, etc.), and many kinds of information can be disseminated and combined with other kinds without consciousness, as in intersensory interactions such as the ventriloquism effect.
Consciousness — For a review of the differences between conscious and unconscious integrations, see the article of Ezequiel Morsella.
Consciousness — As noted earlier, even among writers who consider consciousness to be well-defined, there is widespread dispute about which animals other than humans can be said to possess it.
Consciousness — Edelman has described this distinction as that of humans possessing higher-order consciousness while sharing the trait of primary consciousness with non-human animals (see previous paragraph).
Consciousness — Thus, any examination of the evolution of consciousness is faced with great difficulties.
Consciousness — Nevertheless, some writers have argued that consciousness can be viewed from the standpoint of evolutionary biology as an adaptation in the sense of a trait that increases fitness.
Consciousness — In his article "Evolution of consciousness", John Eccles argued that special anatomical and physical properties of the mammalian cerebral cortex gave rise to consciousness ("[a] psychon ... linked to [a] dendron through quantum physics").
Consciousness — Bernard Baars proposed that once in place, this "recursive" circuitry may have provided a basis for the subsequent development of many of the functions that consciousness facilitates in higher organisms.
Consciousness — Peter Carruthers has put forth one such potential adaptive advantage gained by conscious creatures by suggesting that consciousness allows an individual to make distinctions between appearance and reality.
Consciousness — This ability would enable a creature to recognize the likelihood that their perceptions are deceiving them (e.g. that water in the distance may be a mirage) and behave accordingly, and it could also facilitate the manipulation of others by recognizing how things appear to them for both cooperative and devious ends.
Consciousness — Other philosophers, however, have suggested that consciousness would not be necessary for any functional advantage in evolutionary processes.
Consciousness — No one has given a causal explanation, they argue, of why it would not be possible for a functionally equivalent non-conscious organism (i.e., a philosophical zombie) to achieve the very same survival advantages as a conscious organism.
Consciousness — If evolutionary processes are blind to the difference between function F being performed by conscious organism O and non-conscious organism O*, it is unclear what adaptive advantage consciousness could provide.
Consciousness — As a result, an exaptive explanation of consciousness has gained favor with some theorists that posit consciousness did not evolve as an adaptation but was an exaptation arising as a consequence of other developments such as increases in brain size or cortical rearrangement.
Consciousness — Consciousness in this sense has been compared to the blind spot in the retina where it is not an adaption of the retina, but instead just a by-product of the way the retinal axons were wired.
Consciousness — Several scholars including Pinker, Chomsky, Edelman, and Luria have indicated the importance of the emergence of human language as an important regulative mechanism of learning and memory in the context of the development of higher-order consciousness (see Neural correlates section above).
Consciousness — There are some brain states in which consciousness seems to be absent, including dreamless sleep or coma.
Consciousness — There are also a variety of circumstances that can change the relationship between the mind and the world in less drastic ways, producing what are known as altered states of consciousness.
Consciousness — Some altered states occur naturally; others can be produced by drugs or brain damage.
Consciousness — Altered states can be accompanied by changes in thinking, disturbances in the sense of time, feelings of loss of control, changes in emotional expression, alternations in body image and changes in meaning or significance.
Consciousness — Although dream sleep and non-dream sleep appear very similar to an outside observer, each is associated with a distinct pattern of brain activity, metabolic activity, and eye movement; each is also associated with a distinct pattern of experience and cognition.
Consciousness — During ordinary non-dream sleep, people who are awakened report only vague and sketchy thoughts, and their experiences do not cohere into a continuous narrative.
Consciousness — During dream sleep, in contrast, people who are awakened report rich and detailed experiences in which events form a continuous progression, which may however be interrupted by bizarre or fantastic intrusions.
Consciousness — Thought processes during the dream state frequently show a high level of irrationality.
Consciousness — Both dream and non-dream states are associated with severe disruption of memory: it usually disappears in seconds during the non-dream state, and in minutes after awakening from a dream unless actively refreshed.
Consciousness — Research conducted on the effects of partial epileptic seizures on consciousness found that patients who have partial epileptic seizures experience altered states of consciousness.
Consciousness — In partial epileptic seizures, consciousness is impaired or lost while some aspects of consciousness, often automated behaviors, remain intact.
Consciousness — Studies found that when measuring the qualitative features during partial epileptic seizures, patients exhibited an increase in arousal and became absorbed in the experience of the seizure, followed by difficulty in focusing and shifting attention.
Consciousness — A variety of psychoactive drugs, including alcohol, have notable effects on consciousness.
Consciousness — These range from a simple dulling of awareness produced by sedatives, to increases in the intensity of sensory qualities produced by stimulants, cannabis, empathogens–entactogens such as MDMA ("Ecstasy"), or most notably by the class of drugs known as psychedelics.
Consciousness — LSD, mescaline, psilocybin, dimethyltryptamine, and others in this group can produce major distortions of perception, including hallucinations; some users even describe their drug-induced experiences as mystical or spiritual in quality.
Consciousness — The brain mechanisms underlying these effects are not as well understood as those induced by use of alcohol, but there is substantial evidence that alterations in the brain system that uses the chemical neurotransmitter serotonin play an essential role.
Consciousness — There has been some research into physiological changes in yogis and people who practise various techniques of meditation.
Consciousness — Some research with brain waves during meditation has reported differences between those corresponding to ordinary relaxation and those corresponding to meditation.
Consciousness — It has been disputed, however, whether there is enough evidence to count these as physiologically distinct states of consciousness.
Consciousness — The most extensive study of the characteristics of altered states of consciousness was made by psychologist Charles Tart in the 1960s and 1970s.
Consciousness — Tart analyzed a state of consciousness as made up of a number of component processes, including exteroception (sensing the external world); interoception (sensing the body); input-processing (seeing meaning); emotions; memory; time sense; sense of identity; evaluation and cognitive processing; motor output; and interaction with the environment.
Consciousness — Each of these, in his view, could be altered in multiple ways by drugs or other manipulations.
Consciousness — The components that Tart identified have not, however, been validated by empirical studies.
Consciousness — Research in this area has not yet reached firm conclusions, but a recent questionnaire-based study identified eleven significant factors contributing to drug-induced states of consciousness: experience of unity; spiritual experience; blissful state; insightfulness; disembodiment; impaired control and cognition; anxiety; complex imagery; elementary imagery; audio-visual synesthesia; and changed meaning of percepts.
Consciousness — It derives from a need to treat people whose brain function has been impaired as a result of disease, brain damage, toxins, or drugs.
Consciousness — In medicine, conceptual distinctions are considered useful to the degree that they can help to guide treatments.
Consciousness — The medical approach mainly focuses on the amount of consciousness a person has: in medicine, consciousness is assessed as a "level" ranging from coma and brain death at the low end, to full alertness and purposeful responsiveness at the high end.
Consciousness — Consciousness is of concern to patients and physicians, especially neurologists and anesthesiologists.
Consciousness — Patients may have disorders of consciousness or may need to be anesthetized for a surgical procedure.
Consciousness — Physicians may perform consciousness-related interventions such as instructing the patient to sleep, administering general anesthesia, or inducing medical coma.
Consciousness — Also, bioethicists may be concerned with the ethical implications of consciousness in medical cases of patients such as the Karen Ann Quinlan case, while neuroscientists may study patients with impaired consciousness in hopes of gaining information about how the brain works.
Consciousness — === Assessment === In medicine, consciousness is examined using a set of procedures known as neuropsychological assessment.
Consciousness — There are two commonly used methods for assessing the level of consciousness of a patient: a simple procedure that requires minimal training, and a more complex procedure that requires substantial expertise.
Consciousness — The simple procedure begins by asking whether the patient is able to move and react to physical stimuli.
Consciousness — If so, the next question is whether the patient can respond meaningfully to questions and commands.
Consciousness — If so, the patient is asked for their name, current location, and current day and time.
Consciousness — A patient who can answer all of these questions is said to be "alert and oriented times four" (sometimes denoted "A&Ox4" on a medical chart), and is usually considered fully conscious.
Consciousness — The more complex procedure is known as a neurological examination, and is usually carried out by a neurologist in a hospital setting.
Consciousness — A formal neurological examination runs through a precisely delineated series of tests, beginning with tests for basic sensorimotor reflexes, and culminating with tests for sophisticated use of language.
Consciousness — The outcome may be summarized using the Glasgow Coma Scale, which yields a number in the range 3–15, with a score of 3 to 8 indicating coma, and 15 indicating full consciousness.
Consciousness — The Glasgow Coma Scale has three subscales, measuring the best motor response (ranging from "no motor response" to "obeys commands"), the best eye response (ranging from "no eye opening" to "eyes opening spontaneously") and the best verbal response (ranging from "no verbal response" to "fully oriented").
Consciousness — There is also a simpler pediatric version of the scale, for children too young to be able to use language.
Consciousness — In 2013, an experimental procedure was developed to measure degrees of consciousness, the procedure involving stimulating the brain with a magnetic pulse, measuring resulting waves of electrical activity, and developing a consciousness score based on the complexity of the brain activity.
Consciousness — === Disorders === Medical conditions that inhibit consciousness are considered disorders of consciousness.
Consciousness — This category generally includes minimally conscious state and persistent vegetative state, but sometimes also includes the less severe locked-in syndrome and more severe chronic coma.
Consciousness — Differential diagnosis of these disorders is an active area of biomedical research.
Consciousness — Finally, brain death results in possible irreversible disruption of consciousness.
Consciousness — While other conditions may cause a moderate deterioration (e.g., dementia and delirium) or transient interruption (e.g., grand mal and petit mal seizures) of consciousness, they are not included in this category.
Consciousness — This is a condition in which patients are disabled in some way, most commonly as a result of a stroke, but either misunderstand the nature of the problem or deny that there is anything wrong with them.
Consciousness — The most frequently occurring form is seen in people who have experienced a stroke damaging the parietal lobe in the right hemisphere of the brain, giving rise to a syndrome known as hemispatial neglect, characterized by an inability to direct action or attention toward objects located to the left with respect to their bodies.
Consciousness — Patients with hemispatial neglect are often paralyzed on the left side of the body, but sometimes deny being unable to move.
Consciousness — When questioned about the obvious problem, the patient may avoid giving a direct answer or an explanation that does not make sense.
Consciousness — Patients with hemispatial neglect may also fail to recognize paralyzed parts of their bodies: one frequently mentioned case is of a man who repeatedly tried to throw his own paralyzed right leg out of the bed he was lying in, and when asked what he was doing, complained that somebody had put a dead leg into the bed with him.
Consciousness — An even more striking type of anosognosia is Anton–Babinski syndrome, a rarely occurring condition in which patients become blind but claim to be able to see normally, and persist in this claim in spite of all evidence to the contrary.
Consciousness — Of the eight types of consciousness in the Lycan classification, some are detectable in utero and others develop years after birth.
Consciousness — Psychologist and educator William Foulkes studied children's dreams and concluded that prior to the shift in cognitive maturation that humans experience during ages five to seven, children lack the Lockean consciousness that Lycan had labeled "introspective consciousness" and that Foulkes labels "self-reflection".
Consciousness — In a 2020 paper, Katherine Nelson and Robyn Fivush use "autobiographical consciousness" to label essentially the same faculty, and agree with Foulkes on the timing of this faculty's acquisition.
Consciousness — Nelson and Fivush contend that "language is the tool by which humans create a new, uniquely human form of consciousness, namely, autobiographical consciousness".
Consciousness — Citing the developmental steps that lead the infant to autobiographical consciousness, Nelson and Fivush point to the acquisition of "theory of mind", calling theory of mind "necessary for autobiographical consciousness" and defining it as "understanding differences between one's own mind and others' minds in terms of beliefs, desires, emotions and thoughts".
Consciousness — They write, "The hallmark of theory of mind, the understanding of false belief, occurs ... at five to six years of age".
Consciousness — It poses the problem of other minds in an especially severe form, because non-human animals, lacking the ability to express human language, cannot tell humans about their experiences.
Consciousness — Also, it is difficult to reason objectively about the question, because a denial that an animal is conscious is often taken to imply that it does not feel, its life has no value, and that harming it is not morally wrong.
Consciousness — Descartes, for example, has sometimes been blamed for mistreatment of animals due to the fact that he believed only humans have a non-physical mind.
Consciousness — Most people have a strong intuition that some animals, such as cats and dogs, are conscious, while others, such as insects, are not; but the sources of this intuition are not obvious, and are often based on personal interactions with pets and other animals they have observed.
Consciousness — Philosophers who consider subjective experience the essence of consciousness also generally believe, as a correlate, that the existence and nature of animal consciousness can never rigorously be known.
Consciousness — Thomas Nagel spelled out this point of view in an influential essay titled "What Is it Like to Be a Bat?".
Consciousness — He said that an organism is conscious "if and only if there is something that it is like to be that organism—something it is like for the organism"; and he argued that no matter how much we know about an animal's brain and behavior, we can never really put ourselves into the mind of the animal and experience its world in the way it does itself.
Consciousness — Other thinkers, such as Douglas Hofstadter, dismiss this argument as incoherent.
Consciousness — Several psychologists and ethologists have argued for the existence of animal consciousness by describing a range of behaviors that appear to show animals holding beliefs about things they cannot directly perceive—Donald Griffin's 2001 book Animal Minds reviews a substantial portion of the evidence.
Consciousness — On July 7, 2012, eminent scientists from different branches of neuroscience gathered at the University of Cambridge to celebrate the Francis Crick Memorial Conference, which deals with consciousness in humans and pre-linguistic consciousness in nonhuman animals.
Consciousness — After the conference, they signed in the presence of Stephen Hawking, the 'Cambridge Declaration on Consciousness', which summarizes the most important findings of the survey: "We decided to reach a consensus and make a statement directed to the public that is not scientific.
Consciousness — It's obvious to everyone in this room that animals have consciousness, but it is not obvious to the rest of the world.
Consciousness — It is not obvious to the society." "Convergent evidence indicates that non-human animals ..., including all mammals and birds, and other creatures, ... have the necessary neural substrates of consciousness and the capacity to exhibit intentional behaviors."
Consciousness — The idea of an artifact made conscious is an ancient theme of mythology, appearing for example in the Greek myth of Pygmalion, who carved a statue that was magically brought to life, and in medieval Jewish stories of the Golem, a magically animated homunculus built of clay.
Consciousness — However, the possibility of actually constructing a conscious machine was probably first discussed by Ada Lovelace, in a set of notes written in 1842 about the Analytical Engine invented by Charles Babbage, a precursor (never built) to modern electronic computers.
Consciousness — Lovelace was essentially dismissive of the idea that a machine such as the Analytical Engine could think in a humanlike way.
Consciousness — It is desirable to guard against the possibility of exaggerated ideas that might arise as to the powers of the Analytical Engine. ...
Consciousness — It can follow analysis; but it has no power of anticipating any analytical relations or truths.
Consciousness — Its province is to assist us in making available what we are already acquainted with.
Consciousness — One of the most influential contributions to this question was an essay written in 1950 by pioneering computer scientist Alan Turing, titled Computing Machinery and Intelligence.
Consciousness — Turing disavowed any interest in terminology, saying that even "Can machines think?" is too loaded with spurious connotations to be meaningful; but he proposed to replace all such questions with a specific operational test, which has become known as the Turing test.
Consciousness — To pass the test, a computer must be able to imitate a human well enough to fool interrogators.
Consciousness — In his essay Turing discussed a variety of possible objections, and presented a counterargument to each of them.
Consciousness — The Turing test is commonly cited in discussions of artificial intelligence as a proposed criterion for machine consciousness; it has provoked a great deal of philosophical debate.
Consciousness — For example, Daniel Dennett and Douglas Hofstadter argue that anything capable of passing the Turing test is necessarily conscious, while David Chalmers argues that a philosophical zombie could pass the test, yet fail to be conscious.
Consciousness — A third group of scholars have argued that with technological growth once machines begin to display any substantial signs of human-like behavior then the dichotomy (of human consciousness compared to human-like consciousness) becomes passé and issues of machine autonomy begin to prevail even as observed in its nascent form within contemporary industry and technology.
Consciousness — As an agent sees representation of itself recurring in the environment, the compression of this representation can be called consciousness.
Consciousness — In a lively exchange over what has come to be referred to as "the Chinese room argument", John Searle sought to refute the claim of proponents of what he calls "strong artificial intelligence (AI)" that a computer program can be conscious, though he does agree with advocates of "weak AI" that computer programs can be formatted to "simulate" conscious states.
Consciousness — His own view is that consciousness has subjective, first-person causal powers by being essentially intentional due to the way human brains function biologically; conscious persons can perform computations, but consciousness is not inherently computational the way computer programs are.
Consciousness — To make a Turing machine that speaks Chinese, Searle imagines a room with one monolingual English speaker (Searle himself, in fact), a book that designates a combination of Chinese symbols to be output paired with Chinese symbol input, and boxes filled with Chinese symbols.
Consciousness — In this case, the English speaker is acting as a computer and the rulebook as a program.
Consciousness — Searle argues that with such a machine, he would be able to process the inputs to outputs perfectly without having any understanding of Chinese, nor having any idea what the questions and answers could possibly mean.
Consciousness — If the experiment were done in English, since Searle knows English, he would be able to take questions and give answers without any algorithms for English questions, and he would be effectively aware of what was being said and the purposes it might serve.
Consciousness — Searle would pass the Turing test of answering the questions in both languages, but he is only conscious of what he is doing when he speaks English.
Consciousness — Another way of putting the argument is to say that computer programs can pass the Turing test for processing the syntax of a language, but that the syntax cannot lead to semantic meaning in the way strong AI advocates hoped.
Consciousness — In the literature concerning artificial intelligence, Searle's essay has been second only to Turing's in the volume of debate it has generated.
Consciousness — Searle himself was vague about what extra ingredients it would take to make a machine conscious: all he proposed was that what was needed was "causal powers" of the sort that the brain has and that computers lack.
Consciousness — But other thinkers sympathetic to his basic argument have suggested that the necessary (though perhaps still not sufficient) extra conditions may include the ability to pass not just the verbal version of the Turing test, but the robotic version, which requires grounding the robot's words in the robot's sensorimotor capacity to categorize and interact with the things in the world that its words are about, Turing-indistinguishably from a real person.
Consciousness — Turing-scale robotics is an empirical branch of research on embodied cognition and situated cognition.
Consciousness — In 2014, Victor Argonov has suggested a non-Turing test for machine consciousness based on a machine's ability to produce philosophical judgments.
Consciousness — He argues that a deterministic machine must be regarded as conscious if it is able to produce judgments on all problematic properties of consciousness (such as qualia or binding) having no innate (preloaded) philosophical knowledge on these issues, no philosophical discussions while learning, and no informational models of other creatures in its memory (such models may implicitly or explicitly contain knowledge about these creatures' consciousness).
Consciousness — However, this test can be used only to detect, but not refute the existence of consciousness.
Consciousness — A positive result proves that a machine is conscious but a negative result proves nothing.
Consciousness — For example, absence of philosophical judgments may be caused by lack of the machine's intellect, not by absence of consciousness.
Consciousness — Nick Bostrom has argued in 2023 that, being very sure that large language models (LLMs) aren't conscious, would require unwarranted confidence; in which consciousness theory is correct and how it applies to machines.
Consciousness — He views consciousness as a matter of degree, and argued that machines could in theory be much more conscious than humans.
Consciousness — William James is usually credited with popularizing the idea that human consciousness flows like a stream, in his Principles of Psychology of 1890.
Consciousness — According to James, the "stream of thought" is governed by five characteristics:
Consciousness — A similar concept appears in Buddhist philosophy, expressed by the Sanskrit term Citta-saṃtāna, which is usually translated as mindstream or "mental continuum".
Consciousness — Buddhist teachings describe that consciousness manifests moment to moment as sense impressions and mental phenomena that are continuously changing.
Consciousness — The teachings list six triggers that can result in the generation of different mental events.
Consciousness — These triggers are input from the five senses (seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting or touch sensations), or a thought (relating to the past, present or the future) that happen to arise in the mind.
Consciousness — The mental events generated as a result of these triggers are: feelings, perceptions and intentions/behaviour.
Consciousness — The moment-by-moment manifestation of the mind-stream is said to happen in every person all the time.
Consciousness — It even happens in a scientist who analyzes various phenomena in the world, or analyzes the material body including the organ brain.
Consciousness — The manifestation of the mindstream is also described as being influenced by physical laws, biological laws, psychological laws, volitional laws, and universal laws.
Consciousness — The purpose of the Buddhist practice of mindfulness is to understand the inherent nature of the consciousness and its characteristics.
Consciousness — === Narrative form === In the West, the primary impact of the idea has been on literature rather than science: "stream of consciousness as a narrative mode" means writing in a way that attempts to portray the moment-to-moment thoughts and experiences of a character.
Consciousness — This technique perhaps had its beginnings in the monologues of Shakespeare's plays and reached its fullest development in the novels of James Joyce and Virginia Woolf, although it has also been used by many other noted writers.
Consciousness — Here, for example, is a passage from Joyce's Ulysses about the thoughts of Molly Bloom:
Consciousness — Yes because he never did a thing like that before as ask to get his breakfast in bed with a couple of eggs since the City Arms hotel when he used to be pretending to be laid up with a sick voice doing his highness to make himself interesting for that old faggot Mrs Riordan that he thought he had a great leg of and she never left us a farthing all for masses for herself and her soul greatest miser ever was actually afraid to lay out 4d for her methylated spirit telling me all her ailments she had too much old chat in her about politics and earthquakes and the end of the world let us have a bit of fun first God help the world if all the women were her sort down on bathingsuits and lownecks of course nobody wanted her to wear them I suppose she was pious because no man would look at her twice I hope Ill never be like her a wonder she didnt want us to cover our faces but she was a well-educated woman certainly and her gabby talk about Mr Riordan here and Mr Riordan there I suppose he was glad to get shut of her.
Consciousness — The Upanishads hold the oldest recorded map of consciousness, as explored by sages through meditation.
Consciousness — The Canadian psychiatrist Richard Maurice Bucke, author of the 1901 book Cosmic Consciousness: A Study in the Evolution of the Human Mind, distinguished between three types of consciousness: 'Simple Consciousness', awareness of the body, possessed by many animals; 'Self Consciousness', awareness of being aware, possessed only by humans; and 'Cosmic Consciousness', awareness of the life and order of the universe, possessed only by humans who have attained "intellectual enlightenment or illumination".
Consciousness — Another thorough account of the spiritual approach is Ken Wilber's 1977 book The Spectrum of Consciousness, a comparison of western and eastern ways of thinking about the mind.
Consciousness — Wilber described consciousness as a spectrum with ordinary awareness at one end, and more profound types of awareness at higher levels.
Consciousness — Other examples include the various levels of spiritual consciousness presented by Prem Saran Satsangi and Stuart Hameroff.
Consciousness — An Overview of the Leading Theories of Consciousness.Organizing and comparing the major candidate theories in the field.
Consciousness — Media related to Consciousness at Wikimedia Commons Library resources in your library and in other libraries about Consciousness Consciousness Studies at Wikibooks Quotations related to Consciousness at Wikiquote The dictionary definition of Consciousness at Wiktionary
Memory (psychology) — Memory is the faculty of the mind by which data or information is encoded, stored, and retrieved when needed.
Memory (psychology) — It is the retention of information over time for the purpose of influencing future action.
Memory (psychology) — If past events could not be remembered, it would be impossible for language, relationships, or personal identity to develop.
Memory (psychology) — Memory is often understood as an informational processing system with explicit and implicit functioning that is made up of a sensory processor, short-term (or working) memory, and long-term memory.
Memory (psychology) — The sensory processor allows information from the outside world to be sensed in the form of chemical and physical stimuli and attended to various levels of focus and intent.
Memory (psychology) — Information in the form of stimuli is encoded in accordance with explicit or implicit functions by the working memory processor.
Memory (psychology) — Finally, the function of long-term memory is to store through various categorical models or systems.
Memory (psychology) — Declarative, or explicit memory, is the conscious storage and recollection of data.
Memory (psychology) — Meanwhile, episodic memory refers to information that is encoded along a spatial and temporal plane.
Memory (psychology) — Declarative memory is usually the primary process thought of when referencing memory.
Memory (psychology) — Non-declarative, or implicit, memory is the unconscious storage and recollection of information.
Memory (psychology) — An example of a non-declarative process would be the unconscious learning or retrieval of information by way of procedural memory, or a priming phenomenon.
Memory (psychology) — Priming is the process of subliminally arousing specific responses from memory and shows that not all memory is consciously activated, whereas procedural memory is the slow and gradual learning of skills that often occurs without conscious attention to learning.
Memory (psychology) — The ways by which information is encoded, stored, and retrieved can all be corrupted.
Memory (psychology) — Pain, for example, has been identified as a physical condition that impairs memory, and has been noted in animal models as well as chronic pain patients.
Memory (psychology) — The amount of attention given new stimuli can diminish the amount of information that becomes encoded for storage.
Memory (psychology) — Also, the storage process can become corrupted by physical damage to areas of the brain that are associated with memory storage, such as the hippocampus.
Memory (psychology) — Finally, the retrieval of information from long-term memory can be disrupted because of decay within long-term memory.
Memory (psychology) — Normal functioning, decay over time, and brain damage all affect the accuracy and capacity of the memory.
Memory (psychology) — Sensory memory holds information, derived from the senses, less than one second after an item is perceived.
Memory (psychology) — The ability to look at an item and remember what it looked like with just a split second of observation, or memorization, is an example of sensory memory.
Memory (psychology) — With very short presentations, participants often report that they seem to "see" more than they can actually report.
Memory (psychology) — The first precise experiments exploring this form of sensory memory were conducted by George Sperling (1963) using the "partial report paradigm." Subjects were presented with a grid of 12 letters, arranged into three rows of four.
Memory (psychology) — After a brief presentation, subjects were then played either a high, medium or low tone, cuing them which of the rows to report.
Memory (psychology) — Based on these partial report experiments, Sperling was able to show that the capacity of sensory memory was approximately 12 items, but that it degraded very quickly (within a few hundred milliseconds).
Memory (psychology) — Because this form of memory degrades so quickly, participants would see the display but be unable to report all of the items (12 in the "whole report" procedure) before they decayed.
Memory (psychology) — Iconic memory is a fast decaying store of visual information, a type of sensory memory that briefly stores an image that has been perceived for a small duration.
Memory (psychology) — Echoic memory is a fast decaying store of auditory information, also a sensory memory that briefly stores sounds that have been perceived for short durations.
Memory (psychology) — Haptic memory is a type of sensory memory that represents a database for touch stimuli.
Memory (psychology) — Short-term memory, not to be confused with working memory, allows recall for a period of several seconds to a minute without rehearsal.
Memory (psychology) — Miller (1920–2012), when working at Bell Laboratories, conducted experiments showing that the store of short-term memory was 7±2 items. (Hence, the title of his famous paper, "The Magical Number 7±2.") Modern perspectives estimate the capacity of short-term memory to be lower, typically on the order of 4–5 items, or argue for a more flexible limit based on information instead of items.
Memory (psychology) — For example, in recalling a ten-digit telephone number, a person could chunk the digits into three groups: first, the area code (such as 123), then a three-digit chunk (456), and, last, a four-digit chunk (7890).
Memory (psychology) — This method of remembering telephone numbers is far more effective than attempting to remember a string of 10 digits; this is because we are able to chunk the information into meaningful groups of numbers.
Memory (psychology) — This is reflected in some countries' tendencies to display telephone numbers as several chunks of two to four numbers.
Memory (psychology) — Short-term memory is believed to rely mostly on an acoustic code for storing information, and to a lesser extent on a visual code.
Memory (psychology) — Conrad (1964) found that test subjects had more difficulty recalling collections of letters that were acoustically similar, e.g., E, P, D.
Memory (psychology) — Confusion with recalling acoustically similar letters rather than visually similar letters implies that the letters were encoded acoustically.
Memory (psychology) — Thus, while the memory of written language may rely on acoustic components, generalizations to all forms of memory cannot be made.
Memory (psychology) — The storage in sensory memory and short-term memory generally has a strictly limited capacity and duration.
Memory (psychology) — By contrast, while the total capacity of long-term memory has yet to be established, it can store much larger quantities of information.
Memory (psychology) — Furthermore, it can store this information for a much longer duration, potentially for a whole life span.
Memory (psychology) — For example, given a random seven-digit number, one may remember it for only a few seconds before forgetting, suggesting it was stored in short-term memory.
Memory (psychology) — On the other hand, one can remember telephone numbers for many years through repetition; this information is said to be stored in long-term memory.
Memory (psychology) — While short-term memory encodes information acoustically, long-term memory encodes it semantically: Baddeley (1966) discovered that, after 20 minutes, test subjects had the most difficulty recalling a collection of words that had similar meanings (e.g. big, large, great, huge) long-term.
Memory (psychology) — Another part of long-term memory is episodic memory, "which attempts to capture information such as 'what', 'when' and 'where'".
Memory (psychology) — With episodic memory, individuals are able to recall specific events such as birthday parties and weddings.
Memory (psychology) — Short-term memory is supported by transient patterns of neuronal communication, dependent on regions of the frontal lobe (especially dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) and the parietal lobe.
Memory (psychology) — Long-term memory, on the other hand, is maintained by more stable and permanent changes in neural connections widely spread throughout the brain.
Memory (psychology) — The hippocampus is essential (for learning new information) to the consolidation of information from short-term to long-term memory, although it does not seem to store information itself.
Memory (psychology) — It was thought that without the hippocampus new memories were unable to be stored into long-term memory and that there would be a very short attention span, as first gleaned from patient Henry Molaison after what was thought to be the full removal of both his hippocampi.
Memory (psychology) — More recent examination of his brain, post-mortem, shows that the hippocampus was more intact than first thought, throwing theories drawn from the initial data into question.
Memory (psychology) — The hippocampus may be involved in changing neural connections for a period of three months or more after the initial learning.
Memory (psychology) — Research has suggested that long-term memory storage in humans may be maintained by DNA methylation, and the 'prion' gene.
Memory (psychology) — By 2015 it had become clear that long-term memory requires gene transcription activation and de novo protein synthesis.
Memory (psychology) — Long-term memory formation depends on both the activation of memory promoting genes and the inhibition of memory suppressor genes, and DNA methylation/DNA demethylation was found to be a major mechanism for achieving this dual regulation.
Memory (psychology) — Rats with a new, strong long-term memory due to contextual fear conditioning have reduced expression of about 1,000 genes and increased expression of about 500 genes in the hippocampus 24 hours after training, thus exhibiting modified expression of 9.17% of the rat hippocampal genome.
Memory (psychology) — Considerable further research into long-term memory has illuminated the molecular mechanisms by which methylations are established or removed, as reviewed in 2022.
Memory (psychology) — These mechanisms include, for instance, signal-responsive TOP2B-induced double-strand breaks in immediate early genes.
Memory (psychology) — Also the messenger RNAs of many genes that had been subjected to methylation-controlled increases or decreases are transported by neural granules (messenger RNP) to the dendritic spines.
Memory (psychology) — At these locations the messenger RNAs can be translated into the proteins that control signaling at neuronal synapses.
Memory (psychology) — The transition of a memory from short term to long term is called memory consolidation.
Memory (psychology) — Two propositions of how the brain achieves this task are backpropagation or backprop and positive feedback from the endocrine system.
Memory (psychology) — Backprop has been proposed as a mechanism the brain uses to achieve memory consolidation and has been used, for example by Geoffrey E.
Memory (psychology) — It implies a feedback to neurons consolidating a given memory to erase that information when the brain learns that that information is misleading or wrong.
Memory (psychology) — On the contrary, positive feedback for consolidating a certain short term memory registered in neurons, and considered by the neuro-endocrine systems to be useful, will make that short term memory to consolidate into a permanent one.
Memory (psychology) — This has been shown to be true experimentally first in insects, which use arginine and nitric oxide levels in their brains and endorphin receptors for this task.
Memory (psychology) — The involvement of arginine and nitric oxide in memory consolidation has been confirmed in birds, mammals and other creatures, including humans.
Memory (psychology) — Glial cells have also an important role in memory formation, although how they do their work remains to be unveiled.
Memory (psychology) — The multi-store model (also known as Atkinson–Shiffrin memory model) was first described in 1968 by Atkinson and Shiffrin.
Memory (psychology) — For instance, long-term memory is believed to be actually made up of multiple subcomponents, such as episodic and procedural memory.
Memory (psychology) — It also proposes that rehearsal is the only mechanism by which information eventually reaches long-term storage, but evidence shows us capable of remembering things without rehearsal.
Memory (psychology) — The model also shows all the memory stores as being a single unit whereas research into this shows differently.
Memory (psychology) — For example, short-term memory can be broken up into different units such as visual information and acoustic information.
Memory (psychology) — In a study by Zlonoga and Gerber (1986), patient 'KF' demonstrated certain deviations from the Atkinson–Shiffrin model.
Memory (psychology) — Patient KF was brain damaged, displaying difficulties regarding short-term memory.
Memory (psychology) — Recognition of sounds such as spoken numbers, letters, words, and easily identifiable noises (such as doorbells and cats meowing) were all impacted.
Memory (psychology) — Visual short-term memory was unaffected, suggesting a dichotomy between visual and audial memory.
Memory (psychology) — In 1974 Baddeley and Hitch proposed a "working memory model" that replaced the general concept of short-term memory with active maintenance of information in short-term storage.
Memory (psychology) — In this model, working memory consists of three basic stores: the central executive, the phonological loop, and the visuo-spatial sketchpad.
Memory (psychology) — In 2000 this model was expanded with the multimodal episodic buffer (Baddeley's model of working memory).
Memory (psychology) — It channels information to the three component processes: the phonological loop, the visuospatial sketchpad, and the episodic buffer.
Memory (psychology) — The phonological loop stores auditory information by silently rehearsing sounds or words in a continuous loop: the articulatory process (for example the repetition of a telephone number over and over again).
Memory (psychology) — Articulatory suppression can also confuse encoding and words that sound similar can be switched or misremembered through the phonological similarity effect. the phonological loop also has a limit to how much it can hold at once which means that it is easier to remember a lot of short words rather than a lot of long words, according to the word length effect.
Memory (psychology) — It is engaged when performing spatial tasks (such as judging distances) or visual ones (such as counting the windows on a house or imagining images).
Memory (psychology) — The episodic buffer is dedicated to linking information across domains to form integrated units of visual, spatial, and verbal information and chronological ordering (e.g., the memory of a story or a movie scene).
Memory (psychology) — The episodic buffer is also assumed to have links to long-term memory and semantic meaning.
Memory (psychology) — The working memory model explains many practical observations, such as why it is easier to do two different tasks, one verbal and one visual, than two similar tasks, and the aforementioned word-length effect.
Memory (psychology) — Working memory is also the premise for what allows us to do everyday activities involving thought.
Memory (psychology) — It is the section of memory where we carry out thought processes and use them to learn and reason about topics.
Memory (psychology) — Recognition memory tasks require individuals to indicate whether they have encountered a stimulus (such as a picture or a word) before.
Memory (psychology) — Recall memory tasks require participants to retrieve previously learned information.
Memory (psychology) — For example, individuals might be asked to produce a series of actions they have seen before or to say a list of words they have heard before.
Memory (psychology) — === By information type === Topographical memory involves the ability to orient oneself in space, to recognize and follow an itinerary, or to recognize familiar places.
Memory (psychology) — Getting lost when traveling alone is an example of the failure of topographic memory.
Memory (psychology) — Flashbulb memories are clear episodic memories of unique and highly emotional events.
Memory (psychology) — People remembering where they were or what they were doing when they first heard the news of President Kennedy's assassination, the Sydney Siege or of 9/11 are examples of flashbulb memories.
Memory (psychology) — === Long-term === Anderson (1976) divides long-term memory into declarative (explicit) and procedural (implicit) memories.
Memory (psychology) — Declarative memory requires conscious recall, in that some conscious process must call back the information.
Memory (psychology) — It is sometimes called explicit memory, since it consists of information that is explicitly stored and retrieved.
Memory (psychology) — Declarative memory can be further sub-divided into semantic memory, concerning principles and facts taken independent of context; and episodic memory, concerning information specific to a particular context, such as a time and place.
Memory (psychology) — Semantic memory allows the encoding of abstract knowledge about the world, such as "Paris is the capital of France".
Memory (psychology) — Episodic memory, on the other hand, is used for more personal memories, such as the sensations, emotions, and personal associations of a particular place or time.
Memory (psychology) — Episodic memories often reflect the "firsts" in life such as a first kiss, first day of school or first time winning a championship.
Memory (psychology) — Research suggests that declarative memory is supported by several functions of the medial temporal lobe system which includes the hippocampus.
Memory (psychology) — Autobiographical memory – memory for particular events within one's own life – is generally viewed as either equivalent to, or a subset of, episodic memory.
Memory (psychology) — Visual memory is part of memory preserving some characteristics of our senses pertaining to visual experience.
Memory (psychology) — One is able to place in memory information that resembles objects, places, animals or people in sort of a mental image.
Memory (psychology) — Visual memory can result in priming and it is assumed some kind of perceptual representational system underlies this phenomenon.
Memory (psychology) — ==== Procedural ==== In contrast, procedural memory (or implicit memory) is not based on the conscious recall of information, but on implicit learning.
Memory (psychology) — Procedural memory is primarily used in learning motor skills and can be considered a subset of implicit memory.
Memory (psychology) — It is revealed when one does better in a given task due only to repetition – no new explicit memories have been formed, but one is unconsciously accessing aspects of those previous experiences.
Memory (psychology) — Procedural memory involved in motor learning depends on the cerebellum and basal ganglia.
Memory (psychology) — A characteristic of procedural memory is that the things remembered are automatically translated into actions, and thus sometimes difficult to describe.
Memory (psychology) — Some examples of procedural memory include the ability to ride a bike or tie shoelaces.
Memory (psychology) — === By temporal direction === Another major way to distinguish different memory functions is whether the content to be remembered is in the past, retrospective memory, or in the future, prospective memory.
Memory (psychology) — John Meacham introduced this distinction in a paper presented at the 1975 American Psychological Association annual meeting and subsequently included by Ulric Neisser in his 1982 edited volume, Memory Observed: Remembering in Natural Contexts.
Memory (psychology) — Thus, retrospective memory as a category includes semantic, episodic and autobiographical memory.
Memory (psychology) — In contrast, prospective memory is memory for future intentions, or remembering to remember (Winograd, 1988).
Memory (psychology) — Prospective memory can be further broken down into event- and time-based prospective remembering.
Memory (psychology) — Time-based prospective memories are triggered by a time-cue, such as going to the doctor (action) at 4pm (cue).
Memory (psychology) — Event-based prospective memories are intentions triggered by cues, such as remembering to post a letter (action) after seeing a mailbox (cue).
Memory (psychology) — Cues do not need to be related to the action (as the mailbox/letter example), and lists, sticky-notes, knotted handkerchiefs, or string around the finger all exemplify cues that people use as strategies to enhance prospective memory.
Memory (psychology) — === To assess infants === Infants do not have the language ability to report on their memories and so verbal reports cannot be used to assess very young children's memory.
Memory (psychology) — Throughout the years, however, researchers have adapted and developed a number of measures for assessing both infants' recognition memory and their recall memory.
Memory (psychology) — Habituation and operant conditioning techniques have been used to assess infants' recognition memory and the deferred and elicited imitation techniques have been used to assess infants' recall memory.
Memory (psychology) — Visual paired comparison procedure (relies on habituation): infants are first presented with pairs of visual stimuli, such as two black-and-white photos of human faces, for a fixed amount of time; then, after being familiarized with the two photos, they are presented with the "familiar" photo and a new photo.
Memory (psychology) — Looking longer at the new photo indicates that they remember the "familiar" one.
Memory (psychology) — Studies using this procedure have found that 5- to 6-month-olds can retain information for as long as fourteen days.
Memory (psychology) — Operant conditioning technique: infants are placed in a crib and a ribbon that is connected to a mobile overhead is tied to one of their feet.
Memory (psychology) — Infants notice that when they kick their foot the mobile moves – the rate of kicking increases dramatically within minutes.
Memory (psychology) — Studies using this technique have revealed that infants' memory substantially improves over the first 18-months.
Memory (psychology) — Whereas 2- to 3-month-olds can retain an operant response (such as activating the mobile by kicking their foot) for a week, 6-month-olds can retain it for two weeks, and 18-month-olds can retain a similar operant response for as long as 13 weeks.
Memory (psychology) — Deferred imitation technique: an experimenter shows infants a unique sequence of actions (such as using a stick to push a button on a box) and then, after a delay, asks the infants to imitate the actions.
Memory (psychology) — Studies using deferred imitation have shown that 14-month-olds' memories for the sequence of actions can last for as long as four months.
Memory (psychology) — Elicited imitation technique: is very similar to the deferred imitation technique; the difference is that infants are allowed to imitate the actions before the delay.
Memory (psychology) — Studies using the elicited imitation technique have shown that 20-month-olds can recall the action sequences twelve months later.
Memory (psychology) — === To assess children and older adults === Researchers use a variety of tasks to assess older children and adults' memory.
Memory (psychology) — Paired associate learning – when one learns to associate one specific word with another.
Memory (psychology) — For example, when given a word such as "safe" one must learn to say another specific word, such as "green".
Memory (psychology) — Free recall – during this task a subject would be asked to study a list of words and then later they will be asked to recall or write down as many words that they can remember, similar to free response questions.
Memory (psychology) — Earlier items are affected by retroactive interference (RI), which means the longer the list, the greater the interference, and the less likelihood that they are recalled.
Memory (psychology) — On the other hand, items that have been presented lastly suffer little RI, but suffer a great deal from proactive interference (PI), which means the longer the delay in recall, the more likely that the items will be lost.
Memory (psychology) — Cued recall – one is given a significant hints to help retrieve information that has been previously encoded into the person's memory; typically this can involve a word relating to the information being asked to remember.
Memory (psychology) — Recognition – subjects are asked to remember a list of words or pictures, after which point they are asked to identify the previously presented words or pictures from among a list of alternatives that were not presented in the original list.
Memory (psychology) — Detection paradigm – individuals are shown a number of objects and color samples during a certain period of time.
Memory (psychology) — They are then tested on their visual ability to remember as much as they can by looking at testers and pointing out whether the testers are similar to the sample, or if any change is present.
Memory (psychology) — Savings method – compares the speed of originally learning to the speed of relearning it.
Memory (psychology) — Implicit-memory tasks – information is drawn from memory without conscious realization.
Memory (psychology) — This occurs in the storage stage of memory, after the information has been stored and before it is retrieved.
Memory (psychology) — It follows a general pattern where the information is rapidly forgotten during the first couple of days or years, followed by small losses in later days or years.
Memory (psychology) — Attention plays a key role in storing information into long-term memory; without proper attention, the information might not be stored, making it impossible to be retrieved later.
Memory (psychology) — == Physiology == Brain areas involved in the neuroanatomy of memory such as the hippocampus, the amygdala, the striatum, or the mammillary bodies are thought to be involved in specific types of memory.
Memory (psychology) — For example, the hippocampus is believed to be involved in spatial learning and declarative learning, while the amygdala is thought to be involved in emotional memory.
Memory (psychology) — Damage to certain areas in patients and animal models and subsequent memory deficits is a primary source of information.
Memory (psychology) — However, rather than implicating a specific area, it could be that damage to adjacent areas, or to a pathway traveling through the area is actually responsible for the observed deficit.
Memory (psychology) — Further, it is not sufficient to describe memory, and its counterpart, learning, as solely dependent on specific brain regions.
Memory (psychology) — Learning and memory are usually attributed to changes in neuronal synapses, thought to be mediated by long-term potentiation and long-term depression.
Memory (psychology) — In general, the more emotionally charged an event or experience is, the better it is remembered; this phenomenon is known as the memory enhancement effect.
Memory (psychology) — Patients with amygdala damage, however, do not show a memory enhancement effect.
Memory (psychology) — He postulated that any memory that stayed in short-term storage for a long enough time would be consolidated into a long-term memory.
Memory (psychology) — Research has shown that direct injections of cortisol or epinephrine help the storage of recent experiences.
Memory (psychology) — This proves that excitement enhances memory by the stimulation of hormones that affect the amygdala.
Memory (psychology) — Excessive or prolonged stress (with prolonged cortisol) may hurt memory storage.
Memory (psychology) — Patients with amygdalar damage are no more likely to remember emotionally charged words than nonemotionally charged ones.
Memory (psychology) — The hippocampus receives input from different parts of the cortex and sends its output out to different parts of the brain also.
Memory (psychology) — The input comes from secondary and tertiary sensory areas that have processed the information a lot already.
Memory (psychology) — This memory loss includes retrograde amnesia which is the loss of memory for events that occurred shortly before the time of brain damage.
Memory (psychology) — Cognitive neuroscientists consider memory as the retention, reactivation, and reconstruction of the experience-independent internal representation.
Memory (psychology) — The term of internal representation implies that such a definition of memory contains two components: the expression of memory at the behavioral or conscious level, and the underpinning physical neural changes (Dudai 2007).
Memory (psychology) — Some neuroscientists and psychologists mistakenly equate the concept of engram and memory, broadly conceiving all persisting after-effects of experiences as memory; others argue against this notion that memory does not exist until it is revealed in behavior or thought (Moscovitch 2007).
Memory (psychology) — One question that is crucial in cognitive neuroscience is how information and mental experiences are coded and represented in the brain.
Memory (psychology) — Scientists have gained much knowledge about the neuronal codes from the studies of plasticity, but most of such research has been focused on simple learning in simple neuronal circuits; it is considerably less clear about the neuronal changes involved in more complex examples of memory, particularly declarative memory that requires the storage of facts and events (Byrne 2007).
Memory (psychology) — Convergence-divergence zones might be the neural networks where memories are stored and retrieved.
Memory (psychology) — Considering that there are several kinds of memory, depending on types of represented knowledge, underlying mechanisms, processes functions and modes of acquisition, it is likely that different brain areas support different memory systems and that they are in mutual relationships in neuronal networks: "components of memory representation are distributed widely across different parts of the brain as mediated by multiple neocortical circuits".
Memory (psychology) — Encoding of working memory involves the spiking of individual neurons induced by sensory input, which persists even after the sensory input disappears (Jensen and Lisman 2005; Fransen et al.
Memory (psychology) — Encoding of episodic memory involves persistent changes in molecular structures that alter synaptic transmission between neurons.
Memory (psychology) — Examples of such structural changes include long-term potentiation (LTP) or spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP).
Memory (psychology) — The persistent spiking in working memory can enhance the synaptic and cellular changes in the encoding of episodic memory (Jensen and Lisman 2005).
Memory (psychology) — Recent functional imaging studies detected working memory signals in both medial temporal lobe (MTL), a brain area strongly associated with long-term memory, and prefrontal cortex (Ranganath et al.
Memory (psychology) — 2005), suggesting a strong relationship between working memory and long-term memory.
Memory (psychology) — However, the substantially more working memory signals seen in the prefrontal lobe suggest that this area plays a more important role in working memory than MTL (Suzuki 2007).
Memory (psychology) — Short-term memory (STM) is temporary and subject to disruption, while long-term memory (LTM), once consolidated, is persistent and stable.
Memory (psychology) — Consolidation of STM into LTM at the molecular level presumably involves two processes: synaptic consolidation and system consolidation.
Memory (psychology) — The former involves a protein synthesis process in the medial temporal lobe (MTL), whereas the latter transforms the MTL-dependent memory into an MTL-independent memory over months to years (Ledoux 2007).
Memory (psychology) — In recent years, such traditional consolidation dogma has been re-evaluated as a result of the studies on reconsolidation.
Memory (psychology) — These studies showed that prevention after retrieval affects subsequent retrieval of the memory (Sara 2000).
Memory (psychology) — New studies have shown that post-retrieval treatment with protein synthesis inhibitors and many other compounds can lead to an amnestic state (Nadel et al.
Memory (psychology) — These findings on reconsolidation fit with the behavioral evidence that retrieved memory is not a carbon copy of the initial experiences, and memories are updated during retrieval.
Memory (psychology) — Study of the genetics of human memory is in its infancy though many genes have been investigated for their association to memory in humans and non-human animals.
Memory (psychology) — A notable initial success was the association of APOE with memory dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease.
Memory (psychology) — One of the first candidates for normal variation in memory is the protein KIBRA, which appears to be associated with the rate at which material is forgotten over a delay period.
Memory (psychology) — There has been some evidence that memories are stored in the nucleus of neurons.
Memory (psychology) — === Genetic underpinnings === Several genes, proteins and enzymes have been extensively researched for their association with memory.
Memory (psychology) — Long-term memory, unlike short-term memory, is dependent upon the synthesis of new proteins.
Memory (psychology) — This occurs within the cellular body, and concerns the particular transmitters, receptors, and new synapse pathways that reinforce the communicative strength between neurons.
Memory (psychology) — The production of new proteins devoted to synapse reinforcement is triggered after the release of certain signaling substances (such as calcium within hippocampal neurons) in the cell.
Memory (psychology) — In the case of hippocampal cells, this release is dependent upon the expulsion of magnesium (a binding molecule) that is expelled after significant and repetitive synaptic signaling.
Memory (psychology) — The temporary expulsion of magnesium frees NMDA receptors to release calcium in the cell, a signal that leads to gene transcription and the construction of reinforcing proteins.
Memory (psychology) — One of the newly synthesized proteins in LTP is also critical for maintaining long-term memory.
Memory (psychology) — This protein is an autonomously active form of the enzyme protein kinase C (PKC), known as PKMζ.
Memory (psychology) — PKMζ maintains the activity-dependent enhancement of synaptic strength and inhibiting PKMζ erases established long-term memories, without affecting short-term memory or, once the inhibitor is eliminated, the ability to encode and store new long-term memories is restored.
Memory (psychology) — The long-term stabilization of synaptic changes is also determined by a parallel increase of pre- and postsynaptic structures such as axonal bouton, dendritic spine and postsynaptic density.
Memory (psychology) — On the molecular level, an increase of the postsynaptic scaffolding proteins PSD-95 and HOMER1c has been shown to correlate with the stabilization of synaptic enlargement.
Memory (psychology) — The cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) is a transcription factor which is believed to be important in consolidating short-term to long-term memories, and which is believed to be downregulated in Alzheimer's disease.
Memory (psychology) — === DNA methylation and demethylation === Rats exposed to an intense learning event may retain a life-long memory of the event, even after a single training session.
Memory (psychology) — The long-term memory of such an event appears to be initially stored in the hippocampus, but this storage is transient.
Memory (psychology) — Much of the long-term storage of the memory seems to take place in the anterior cingulate cortex.
Memory (psychology) — When such an exposure was experimentally applied, more than 5,000 differently methylated DNA regions appeared in the hippocampus neuronal genome of the rats at one and at 24 hours after training.
Memory (psychology) — These alterations in methylation pattern occurred at many genes that were downregulated, often due to the formation of new 5-methylcytosine sites in CpG rich regions of the genome.
Memory (psychology) — Furthermore, many other genes were upregulated, likely often due to hypomethylation.
Memory (psychology) — Hypomethylation often results from the removal of methyl groups from previously existing 5-methylcytosines in DNA.
Memory (psychology) — Demethylation is carried out by several proteins acting in concert, including the TET enzymes as well as enzymes of the DNA base excision repair pathway (see Epigenetics in learning and memory).
Memory (psychology) — The pattern of induced and repressed genes in brain neurons subsequent to an intense learning event likely provides the molecular basis for a long-term memory of the event.
Memory (psychology) — Studies of the molecular basis for memory formation indicate that epigenetic mechanisms operating in neurons in the brain play a central role in determining this capability.
Memory (psychology) — Key epigenetic mechanisms involved in memory include the methylation and demethylation of neuronal DNA, as well as modifications of histone proteins including methylations, acetylations and deacetylations.
Memory (psychology) — Stimulation of brain activity in memory formation is often accompanied by the generation of damage in neuronal DNA that is followed by repair associated with persistent epigenetic alterations.
Memory (psychology) — In particular the DNA repair processes of non-homologous end joining and base excision repair are employed in memory formation.
Memory (psychology) — === DNA topoisomerase 2-beta in learning and memory === During a new learning experience, a set of genes is rapidly expressed in the brain.
Memory (psychology) — This induced gene expression is considered to be essential for processing the information being learned.
Memory (psychology) — DNA topoisomerase 2-beta (TOP2B) activity is essential for the expression of IEGs in a type of learning experience in mice termed associative fear memory.
Memory (psychology) — Such a learning experience appears to rapidly trigger TOP2B to induce double-strand breaks in the promoter DNA of IEG genes that function in neuroplasticity.
Memory (psychology) — Repair of these induced breaks is associated with DNA demethylation of IEG gene promoters allowing immediate expression of these IEG genes.
Memory (psychology) — The double-strand breaks that are induced during a learning experience are not immediately repaired.
Memory (psychology) — About 600 regulatory sequences in promoters and about 800 regulatory sequences in enhancers appear to depend on double strand breaks initiated by topoisomerase 2-beta (TOP2B) for activation.
Memory (psychology) — The induction of particular double-strand breaks are specific with respect to their inducing signal.
Memory (psychology) — When neurons are activated in vitro, just 22 of TOP2B-induced double-strand breaks occur in their genomes.
Memory (psychology) — Such TOP2B-induced double-strand breaks are accompanied by at least four enzymes of the non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) DNA repair pathway (DNA-PKcs, KU70, KU80, and DNA LIGASE IV) (see Figure).
Memory (psychology) — These enzymes repair the double-strand breaks within about 15 minutes to two hours.
Memory (psychology) — The double-strand breaks in the promoter are thus associated with TOP2B and at least these four repair enzymes.
Memory (psychology) — These proteins are present simultaneously on a single promoter nucleosome (there are about 147 nucleotides in the DNA sequence wrapped around a single nucleosome) located near the transcription start site of their target gene.
Memory (psychology) — The double-strand break introduced by TOP2B apparently frees the part of the promoter at an RNA polymerase-bound transcription start site to physically move to its associated enhancer (see regulatory sequence).
Memory (psychology) — This allows the enhancer, with its bound transcription factors and mediator proteins, to directly interact with the RNA polymerase paused at the transcription start site to start transcription.
Memory (psychology) — Contextual fear conditioning in the mouse causes the mouse to have a long-term memory and fear of the location in which it occurred.
Memory (psychology) — Contextual fear conditioning causes hundreds of DSBs in mouse brain medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and hippocampus neurons (see Figure: Brain regions involved in memory formation).
Memory (psychology) — These DSBs predominately activate genes involved in synaptic processes, that are important for learning and memory.
Memory (psychology) — Up until the mid-1980s it was assumed that infants could not encode, retain, and retrieve information.
Memory (psychology) — A growing body of research now indicates that infants as young as 6-months can recall information after a 24-hour delay.
Memory (psychology) — Furthermore, research has revealed that as infants grow older they can store information for longer periods of time; 6-month-olds can recall information after a 24-hour period, 9-month-olds after up to five weeks, and 20-month-olds after as long as twelve months.
Memory (psychology) — In addition, studies have shown that with age, infants can store information faster.
Memory (psychology) — Whereas 14-month-olds can recall a three-step sequence after being exposed to it once, 6-month-olds need approximately six exposures in order to be able to remember it.
Memory (psychology) — Although 6-month-olds can recall information over the short-term, they have difficulty recalling the temporal order of information.
Memory (psychology) — It is only by 9 months of age that infants can recall the actions of a two-step sequence in the correct temporal order – that is, recalling step 1 and then step 2.
Memory (psychology) — In other words, when asked to imitate a two-step action sequence (such as putting a toy car in the base and pushing in the plunger to make the toy roll to the other end), 9-month-olds tend to imitate the actions of the sequence in the correct order (step 1 and then step 2).
Memory (psychology) — Researchers have suggested that these age differences are probably due to the fact that the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and the frontal components of the neural network are not fully developed at the age of 6-months.
Memory (psychology) — In fact, the term 'infantile amnesia' refers to the phenomenon of accelerated forgetting during infancy.
Memory (psychology) — Importantly, infantile amnesia is not unique to humans, and preclinical research (using rodent models) provides insight into the precise neurobiology of this phenomenon.
Memory (psychology) — A review of the literature from behavioral neuroscientist Jee Hyun Kim suggests that accelerated forgetting during early life is at least partly due to rapid growth of the brain during this period.
Memory (psychology) — One of the key concerns of older adults is the experience of memory loss, especially as it is one of the hallmark symptoms of Alzheimer's disease.
Memory (psychology) — However, memory loss is qualitatively different in normal aging from the kind of memory loss associated with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's (Budson & Price, 2005).
Memory (psychology) — Research has revealed that individuals' performance on memory tasks that rely on frontal regions declines with age.
Memory (psychology) — Older adults tend to exhibit deficits on tasks that involve knowing the temporal order in which they learned information, source memory tasks that require them to remember the specific circumstances or context in which they learned information, and prospective memory tasks that involve remembering to perform an act at a future time.
Memory (psychology) — Older adults can manage their problems with prospective memory by using appointment books, for example.
Memory (psychology) — Gene transcription profiles were determined for the human frontal cortex of individuals from age 26 to 106 years.
Memory (psychology) — Numerous genes were identified with reduced expression after age 40, and especially after age 70.
Memory (psychology) — Genes that play central roles in memory and learning were among those showing the most significant reduction with age.
Memory (psychology) — There was also a marked increase in DNA damage, likely oxidative damage, in the promoters of those genes with reduced expression.
Memory (psychology) — It was suggested that DNA damage may reduce the expression of selectively vulnerable genes involved in memory and learning.
Memory (psychology) — Much of the current knowledge of memory has come from studying memory disorders, particularly loss of memory, known as amnesia.
Memory (psychology) — Amnesia can result from extensive damage to: (a) the regions of the medial temporal lobe, such as the hippocampus, dentate gyrus, subiculum, amygdala, the parahippocampal, entorhinal, and perirhinal cortices or the (b) midline diencephalic region, specifically the dorsomedial nucleus of the thalamus and the mammillary bodies of the hypothalamus.
Memory (psychology) — There are many sorts of amnesia, and by studying their different forms, it has become possible to observe apparent defects in individual sub-systems of the brain's memory systems, and thus hypothesize their function in the normally working brain.
Memory (psychology) — Other neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease can also affect memory and cognition.
Memory (psychology) — Hyperthymesia, or hyperthymesic syndrome, is a disorder that affects an individual's autobiographical memory, essentially meaning that they cannot forget small details that otherwise would not be stored.
Memory (psychology) — Korsakoff's syndrome, also known as Korsakoff's psychosis, amnesic-confabulatory syndrome, is an organic brain disease that adversely affects memory by widespread loss or shrinkage of neurons within the prefrontal cortex.
Memory (psychology) — While not a disorder, a common temporary failure of word retrieval from memory is the tip-of-the-tongue phenomenon.
Memory (psychology) — Those with anomic aphasia (also called nominal aphasia or Anomia), however, do experience the tip-of-the-tongue phenomenon on an ongoing basis due to damage to the frontal and parietal lobes of the brain.
Memory (psychology) — Other viruses can also elicit memory dysfunction, including SARS-CoV-1, MERS-CoV, Ebola virus and even influenza virus.
Memory (psychology) — There is retroactive interference, when learning new information makes it harder to recall old information and proactive interference, where prior learning disrupts recall of new information.
Memory (psychology) — Although interference can lead to forgetting, it is important to keep in mind that there are situations when old information can facilitate learning of new information.
Memory (psychology) — Knowing Latin, for instance, can help an individual learn a related language such as French – this phenomenon is known as positive transfer.
Memory (psychology) — In response to stressful situations, the brain releases hormones and neurotransmitters (ex. glucocorticoids and catecholamines) which affect memory encoding processes in the hippocampus.
Memory (psychology) — Behavioural research on animals shows that chronic stress produces adrenal hormones which impact the hippocampal structure in the brains of rats.
Memory (psychology) — Wolf demonstrates how learning under stress also decreases memory recall in humans.
Memory (psychology) — In this study, 48 healthy female and male university students participated in either a stress test or a control group.
Memory (psychology) — Those randomly assigned to the stress test group had a hand immersed in ice cold water (the reputable SECPT or 'Socially Evaluated Cold Pressor Test') for up to three minutes, while being monitored and videotaped.
Memory (psychology) — Both the stress and control groups were then presented with 32 words to memorize.
Memory (psychology) — Twenty-four hours later, both groups were tested to see how many words they could remember (free recall) as well as how many they could recognize from a larger list of words (recognition performance).
Memory (psychology) — The results showed a clear impairment of memory performance in the stress test group, who recalled 30% fewer words than the control group.
Memory (psychology) — The researchers suggest that stress experienced during learning distracts people by diverting their attention during the memory encoding process.
Memory (psychology) — However, memory performance can be enhanced when material is linked to the learning context, even when learning occurs under stress.
Memory (psychology) — A separate study by cognitive psychologists Schwabe and Wolf shows that when retention testing is done in a context similar to or congruent with the original learning task (i.e., in the same room), memory impairment and the detrimental effects of stress on learning can be attenuated.
Memory (psychology) — Seventy-two healthy female and male university students, randomly assigned to the SECPT stress test or to a control group, were asked to remember the locations of 15 pairs of picture cards – a computerized version of the card game "Concentration" or "Memory".
Memory (psychology) — The room in which the experiment took place was infused with the scent of vanilla, as odour is a strong cue for memory.
Memory (psychology) — Retention testing took place the following day, either in the same room with the vanilla scent again present, or in a different room without the fragrance.
Memory (psychology) — The memory performance of subjects who experienced stress during the object-location task decreased significantly when they were tested in an unfamiliar room without the vanilla scent (an incongruent context); however, the memory performance of stressed subjects showed no impairment when they were tested in the original room with the vanilla scent (a congruent context).
Memory (psychology) — All participants in the experiment, both stressed and unstressed, performed faster when the learning and retrieval contexts were similar.
Memory (psychology) — This research on the effects of stress on memory may have practical implications for education, for eyewitness testimony and for psychotherapy: students may perform better when tested in their regular classroom rather than an exam room, eyewitnesses may recall details better at the scene of an event than in a courtroom, and persons with post-traumatic stress may improve when helped to situate their memories of a traumatic event in an appropriate context.
Memory (psychology) — Glucocorticoids that are released during stress cause damage to neurons that are located in the hippocampal region of the brain.
Memory (psychology) — Therefore, the more stressful situations that someone encounters, the more susceptible they are to memory loss later on.
Memory (psychology) — The CA1 neurons found in the hippocampus are destroyed due to glucocorticoids decreasing the release of glucose and the reuptake of glutamate.
Memory (psychology) — This high level of extracellular glutamate allows calcium to enter NMDA receptors which in return kills neurons.
Memory (psychology) — Stressful life experiences can also cause repression of memories where a person moves an unbearable memory to the unconscious mind.
Memory (psychology) — This directly relates to traumatic events in one's past such as kidnappings, being prisoners of war or sexual abuse as a child.
Memory (psychology) — However, short term exposure to stress also causes impairment in memory by interfering with the function of the hippocampus.
Memory (psychology) — Research shows that subjects placed in a stressful situation for a short amount of time still have blood glucocorticoid levels that have increased drastically when measured after the exposure is completed.
Memory (psychology) — When subjects are asked to complete a learning task after short term exposure they often have difficulties.
Memory (psychology) — Prenatal stress also hinders the ability to learn and memorize by disrupting the development of the hippocampus and can lead to unestablished long term potentiation in the offspring of severely stressed parents.
Memory (psychology) — Although the stress is applied prenatally, the offspring show increased levels of glucocorticoids when they are subjected to stress later on in life.
Memory (psychology) — One explanation for why children from lower socioeconomic backgrounds tend to display poorer memory performance than their higher-income peers is the effects of stress accumulated over the course of the lifetime.
Memory (psychology) — The effects of low income on the developing hippocampus is also thought be mediated by chronic stress responses which may explain why children from lower and higher-income backgrounds differ in terms of memory performance.
Memory (psychology) — Making memories occurs through a three-step process, which can be enhanced by sleep.
Memory (psychology) — Acquisition which is the process of storage and retrieval of new information in memory Consolidation Recall Sleep affects memory consolidation.
Memory (psychology) — There have been several studies which show that sleep improves the retention of memory, as memories are enhanced through active consolidation.
Memory (psychology) — This process implicates that memories are reactivated during sleep, but that the process does not enhance every memory.
Memory (psychology) — It also implicates that qualitative changes are made to the memories when they are transferred to long-term store during sleep.
Memory (psychology) — The neocortex then reviews and processes memories, which moves them into long-term memory.
Memory (psychology) — When one does not get enough sleep it makes it more difficult to learn as these neural connections are not as strong, resulting in a lower retention rate of memories.
Memory (psychology) — Furthermore, some studies have shown that sleep deprivation can lead to false memories as the memories are not properly transferred to long-term memory.
Memory (psychology) — One of the primary functions of sleep is thought to be the improvement of the consolidation of information, as several studies have demonstrated that memory depends on getting sufficient sleep between training and test.
Memory (psychology) — Additionally, data obtained from neuroimaging studies have shown activation patterns in the sleeping brain that mirror those recorded during the learning of tasks from the previous day, suggesting that new memories may be solidified through such rehearsal.
Memory (psychology) — == Construction for general manipulation == Although people often think that memory operates like recording equipment, this is not the case.
Memory (psychology) — The molecular mechanisms underlying the induction and maintenance of memory are very dynamic and comprise distinct phases covering a time window from seconds to even a lifetime.
Memory (psychology) — In fact, research has revealed that our memories are constructed: "current hypotheses suggest that constructive processes allow individuals to simulate and imagine future episodes, happenings, and scenarios.
Memory (psychology) — Since the future is not an exact repetition of the past, simulation of future episodes requires a complex system that can draw on the past in a manner that flexibly extracts and recombines elements of previous experiences – a constructive rather than a reproductive system." People can construct their memories when they encode them and/or when they recall them.
Memory (psychology) — To illustrate, consider a classic study conducted by Elizabeth Loftus and John Palmer (1974) in which people were instructed to watch a film of a traffic accident and then asked about what they saw.
Memory (psychology) — The researchers found that the people who were asked, "How fast were the cars going when they smashed into each other?" gave higher estimates than those who were asked, "How fast were the cars going when they hit each other?" Furthermore, when asked a week later whether they had seen broken glass in the film, those who had been asked the question with smashed were twice more likely to report that they had seen broken glass than those who had been asked the question with hit (there was no broken glass depicted in the film).
Memory (psychology) — Importantly, the wording of the question led people to construct different memories of the event – those who were asked the question with smashed recalled a more serious car accident than they had actually seen.
Memory (psychology) — The findings of this experiment were replicated around the world, and researchers consistently demonstrated that when people were provided with misleading information they tended to misremember, a phenomenon known as the misinformation effect.
Memory (psychology) — Research has revealed that asking individuals to repeatedly imagine actions that they have never performed or events that they have never experienced could result in false memories.
Memory (psychology) — For instance, Goff and Roediger (1998) asked participants to imagine that they performed an act (e.g., break a toothpick) and then later asked them whether they had done such a thing.
Memory (psychology) — Findings revealed that those participants who repeatedly imagined performing such an act were more likely to think that they had actually performed that act during the first session of the experiment.
Memory (psychology) — Similarly, Garry and her colleagues (1996) asked college students to report how certain they were that they experienced a number of events as children (e.g., broke a window with their hand) and then two weeks later asked them to imagine four of those events.
Memory (psychology) — The researchers found that one-fourth of the students asked to imagine the four events reported that they had actually experienced such events as children.
Memory (psychology) — That is, when asked to imagine the events they were more confident that they experienced the events.
Memory (psychology) — Research reported in 2013 revealed that it is possible to artificially stimulate prior memories and artificially implant false memories in mice.
Memory (psychology) — Using optogenetics, a team of RIKEN-MIT scientists caused the mice to incorrectly associate a benign environment with a prior unpleasant experience from different surroundings.
Memory (psychology) — Some scientists believe that the study may have implications in studying false memory formation in humans, and in treating PTSD and schizophrenia.
Memory (psychology) — Memory reconsolidation is when previously consolidated memories are recalled or retrieved from long-term memory to your active consciousness.
Memory (psychology) — During this process, memories can be further strengthened and added to but there is also risk of manipulation involved.
Memory (psychology) — We like to think of our memories as something stable and constant when they are stored in long-term memory but this is not the case.
Memory (psychology) — There are a large number of studies that found that consolidation of memories is not a singular event but are put through the process again, known as reconsolidation.
Memory (psychology) — This is when a memory is recalled or retrieved and placed back into your working memory.
Memory (psychology) — The memory is now open to manipulation from outside sources and the misinformation effect which could be due to misattributing the source of the inconsistent information, with or without an intact original memory trace.
Memory (psychology) — This new research into the concept of reconsolidation has opened the door to methods to help those with unpleasant memories or those that struggle with memories.
Memory (psychology) — An example of this is if you had a truly frightening experience and recall that memory in a less arousing environment, the memory will be weaken the next time it is retrieved. "Some studies suggest that over-trained or strongly reinforced memories do not undergo reconsolidation if reactivated the first few days after training, but do become sensitive to reconsolidation interference with time." This, however does not mean that all memory is susceptible to reconsolidation.
Memory (psychology) — There is evidence to suggest that memory that has undergone strong training and whether or not is it intentional is less likely to undergo reconsolidation.
Memory (psychology) — There was further testing done with rats and mazes that showed that reactivated memories were more susceptible to manipulation, in both good and bad ways, than newly formed memories.
Memory (psychology) — It is still not known whether or not these are new memories formed and it is an inability to retrieve the proper one for the situation or if it is a reconsolidated memory.
Memory (psychology) — Because the study of reconsolidation is still a newer concept, there is still debate on whether it should be considered scientifically sound.
Memory (psychology) — A UCLA research study published in the June 2008 issue of the American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry found that people can improve cognitive function and brain efficiency through simple lifestyle changes such as incorporating memory exercises, healthy eating, physical fitness and stress reduction into their daily lives.
Memory (psychology) — This study examined 17 subjects, (average age 53) with normal memory performance.
Memory (psychology) — Eight subjects were asked to follow a "brain healthy" diet, relaxation, physical, and mental exercise (brain teasers and verbal memory training techniques).
Memory (psychology) — After 14 days, they showed greater word fluency (not memory) compared to their baseline performance.
Memory (psychology) — No long-term follow-up was conducted; it is therefore unclear if this intervention has lasting effects on memory.
Memory (psychology) — Exercise, even at light intensity, significantly improves memory across all age groups, with the greatest benefits observed in children and adolescents.
Memory (psychology) — Even low- to moderate-intensity exercise and shorter interventions (1–3 months) can produce meaningful cognitive improvements.
Memory (psychology) — There are a loosely associated group of mnemonic principles and techniques that can be used to vastly improve memory known as the art of memory.
Memory (psychology) — The International Longevity Center released in 2001 a report which includes in pages 14–16 recommendations for keeping the mind in good functionality until advanced age.
Memory (psychology) — to stay intellectually active through learning, training or reading to keep physically active so to promote blood circulation to the brain to socialize to reduce stress to keep sleep time regular to avoid depression or emotional instability to observe good nutrition.
Memory (psychology) — Memorization is a method of learning that allows an individual to recall information verbatim.
Memory (psychology) — Methods of memorizing things have been the subject of much discussion over the years with some writers, such as Cosmos Rossellius using visual alphabets.
Memory (psychology) — The spacing effect shows that an individual is more likely to remember a list of items when rehearsal is spaced over an extended period of time.
Memory (psychology) — In contrast to this is cramming: an intensive memorization in a short period of time.
Memory (psychology) — The spacing effect is exploited to improve memory in spaced repetition flashcard training.
Memory (psychology) — Also relevant is the Zeigarnik effect, which states that people remember uncompleted or interrupted tasks better than completed ones.
Memory (psychology) — The so-called Method of loci uses spatial memory to memorize non-spatial information.
Memory (psychology) — == In plants == Plants lack a specialized organ devoted to memory retention, so plant memory has been a controversial topic in recent years.
Memory (psychology) — New advances in the field have identified the presence of neurotransmitters in plants, adding to the hypothesis that plants are capable of remembering.
Memory (psychology) — Action potentials, a physiological response characteristic of neurons, have been shown to have an influence on plants as well, including in wound responses and photosynthesis.
Memory (psychology) — In addition to these homologous features of memory systems in both plants and animals, plants have also been observed to encode, store and retrieve basic short-term memories.
Memory (psychology) — One of the most well-studied plants to show rudimentary memory is the Venus flytrap.
Memory (psychology) — Native to the subtropical wetlands of the eastern United States, Venus flytraps have evolved the ability to obtain meat for sustenance, likely due to the lack of nitrogen in the soil.
Memory (psychology) — This is done by two trap-forming leaf tips that snap shut once triggered by a potential prey.
Memory (psychology) — In order to maximize the benefit-to-cost ratio, the plant enables a rudimentary form of memory in which two trigger hairs must be stimulated within thirty seconds in order to result in trap closure.
Memory (psychology) — This system ensures that the trap only closes when potential prey is within grasp.
Memory (psychology) — The time lapse between trigger hair stimulations suggests that the plant can remember an initial stimulus long enough for a second stimulus to initiate trap closure.
Memory (psychology) — This initial trigger is not enough to activate trap closure, so a subsequent stimulus allows for a secondary influx of calcium.
Memory (psychology) — The latter calcium rise superimposes on the initial one, creating an action potential that passes threshold, resulting in trap closure.
Memory (psychology) — Researchers, to prove that an electrical threshold must be met to stimulate trap closure, excited a single trigger hair with a constant mechanical stimulus using Ag/AgCl electrodes.
Memory (psychology) — This experiment demonstrated that the electrical threshold, not necessarily the number of trigger hair stimulations, was the contributing factor in Venus flytrap memory.
Memory (psychology) — It has been shown that trap closure can be blocked using uncouplers and inhibitors of voltage-gated channels.
Memory (psychology) — After trap closure, these electrical signals stimulate glandular production of jasmonic acid and hydrolases, allowing for digestion of prey.
Memory (psychology) — An experimental apparatus was designed to drop potted mimosa plants repeatedly from the same distance and at the same speed.
Memory (psychology) — It was observed that the plants' defensive response of curling up their leaves decreased over the sixty times the experiment was repeated.
Memory (psychology) — To confirm that this was a mechanism of memory rather than exhaustion, some of the plants were shaken post experiment and displayed normal defensive responses of leaf curling.
Memory (psychology) — This experiment demonstrated long-term memory in the plants, as it was repeated a month later, and the plants were observed to remain unfazed by the dropping.
Spatial cognition — In cognitive psychology, spatial cognition is the acquisition, organization, utilization, and revision of knowledge about spatial environments.
Spatial cognition — It is most about how animals, including humans, behave within space and the knowledge they built around it, rather than space itself.
Spatial cognition — These capabilities enable individuals to manage basic and high-level cognitive tasks in everyday life.
Spatial cognition — Numerous disciplines (such as cognitive psychology, neuroscience, artificial intelligence, geographic information science, cartography, etc.) work together to understand spatial cognition in different species, especially in humans.
Spatial cognition — Thereby, spatial cognition studies also have helped to link cognitive psychology and neuroscience.
Spatial cognition — Scientists in both fields work together to figure out what role spatial cognition plays in the brain as well as to determine the surrounding neurobiological infrastructure.
Spatial cognition — In humans, spatial cognition is closely related to how people talk about their environment, find their way in new surroundings, and plan routes.
Spatial cognition — Thus a wide range of studies is based on participants reports, performance measures and similar, for example in order to determine cognitive reference frames that allow subjects to perform.
Spatial cognition — In this context the implementation of virtual reality becomes more and more widespread among researchers, since it offers the opportunity to confront participants with unknown environments in a highly controlled manner.
Spatial cognition — Spatial cognition can be seen from a psychological point of view, meaning that people's behaviour within that space is key.
Spatial cognition — When people behave in space, they use cognitive maps, the most evolved form of spatial cognition.
Spatial cognition — When using cognitive maps, information about landmarks and the routes between landmarks are stored and used.
Spatial cognition — This knowledge can be built from various sources; from a tightly coordinated vision and locomotion (movement), but also from map symbols, verbal descriptions, and computer-based pointing systems.
Spatial cognition — According to Montello, space is implicitly referring to a person's body and their associated actions.
Spatial cognition — He mentions different kinds of space; figural space which is a space smaller than the body, vista space which the space is more extended than the human body, environmental space which is learned by locomotion, and geographical space which is the biggest space and can only be learned through cartographic representation.
Spatial cognition — Distances are perceived differently on whether they are considered between a given location and a location that has a high cognitive saliency, meaning that it stands out.
Spatial cognition — Different perceived locations and distances can have a "reference point", which are better known than others, more frequently visited and more visible.
Spatial cognition — Furthermore, there the distortion in distance estimation and the distortion in angle alignment.
Spatial cognition — Distortion in angle alignment means that your personal north will be viewed as "the north".
Spatial cognition — The map is mentally represented according to the orientation of the personal point of view of learning.
Spatial cognition — Since perceived distortion is "subjective" and not necessarily correlated with "objective distance", distortions can happen in this phenomenon too.
Spatial cognition — There can be an overestimation in downtown routes, routes with turns, curved routes and borders or obstacles.
Spatial cognition — A classical approach to the acquisition of spatial knowledge, proposed by Siegel & White in 1975, defines three types of spatial knowledge – landmarks, route knowledge and survey knowledge – and draws a picture of these three as stepstones in a successive development of spatial knowledge.
Spatial cognition — Within this framework, landmarks can be understood as salient objects in the environment of an actor, which are memorized without information about any metric relations at first.
Spatial cognition — By traveling between landmarks, route knowledge evolves, which can be seen as sequential information about the space which connects landmarks.
Spatial cognition — Finally, increased familiarity with an environment allows the development of so-called survey knowledge, which integrates both landmarks and routes and relates it to a fixed coordinate system, i.e. in terms of metric relations and alignment to absolute categories like compass bearings etc.
Spatial cognition — This results in abilities like taking shortcuts never taken before, for example.
Spatial cognition — More recently, newer findings challenged this stairway-like model of acquisition of spatial knowledge.
Spatial cognition — Whereas familiarity with an environment seems to be a crucial predictor of navigational performance indeed, in many cases even survey knowledge can be established after minimal exploration of a new environment.
Spatial cognition — Montello proposed a new framework, indicating, that the changes in spatial knowledge ongoing with growing experience are rather quantitative than qualitative, i. e. different types of spatial knowledge become just more precise and confident.
Spatial cognition — Furthermore, the use of these different types seems to be predominantly task-dependent, which leads to the conclusion that spatial navigation in everyday life requires multiple strategies with different emphasis on landmarks, routes and overall survey knowledge.
Spatial cognition — == Space classification == The space can be classified according to its extension as proposed by Montello, distinguishing between figural space, vista space, environmental space and geographical space.
Spatial cognition — Figural space is the first and most restricted space that refers to the area that a person's body covers without any movement, including objects that can be easily reached.
Spatial cognition — Vista space is the second subspace that refers to the space beyond the body but that is still close enough to be completely visualized without moving, for example, a room.
Spatial cognition — Environmental space is the third subspace which is said to "contain" the body because of its large size and can only be fully explored through movement since all objects and space are not directly visible, like in a city.
Spatial cognition — Environmental space is the most relevant subspace to humans for navigation because they best allow for movement throughout space in order to understand our environment.
Spatial cognition — Geographical space is the last level because it is so large that it can not be explored through movement alone and can only be fully understood through cartographic representations which can illustrate an entire continent on a map.
Spatial cognition — == Reference frames == In order to build spatial knowledge, people construct a cognitive reality in which they compute their environment based on a reference point.
Spatial cognition — Usually there is a distinction made between egocentric (Latin ego: "I") and allocentric (ancient Greek allos: "another, external") reference frames; Egocentric frame of reference refers to placing yourself in the environment and viewing it in the first person, which means that objects' locations are understood relative to yourself.
Spatial cognition — Allocentric frame of reference on the other hand, refers to objects' location based on other objects or landmarks around it.
Spatial cognition — Allocentric frame of reference is centered around the world around you, not around yourself.
Spatial cognition — However, a third distinction can also be made, namely the geocentric reference frame.
Spatial cognition — It is similar to the allocentric reference frame in the way that it has the capacity to encode a location independent from the position of the observer.
Spatial cognition — It achieves this by encoding the space relative to axes that are distributed over an extended space, not by referring to salient landmarks.
Spatial cognition — The geocentric space is most commonly coordinated in terms of longitude and latitude.
Spatial cognition — The difference between an allocentric reference frame and a geocentric reference frame is that an allocentric reference frame is used for smaller-scale environments, whereas a geocentric reference frame is used for large-scale environments, like earth.
Spatial cognition — Whilst spatial information can be stored into these different frames, they already seem to develop together in early stages of childhood and appear to be necessarily used in combination in order to solve everyday life tasks.
Spatial cognition — This reference frame is used when the observer has to communicate with another person about the objects contained in that space.
Spatial cognition — When navigating a space, an observer can take on either a route perspective or a survey perspective.
Spatial cognition — A route perspective is when the observer navigates in relation to their own body and location, whereas a survey perspective is a bird-eye view of the environment, in order to navigate a space.
Spatial cognition — The usage of a route perspective has no influence on the survey perspective in the activation of the brain, and vice versa.
Spatial cognition — A perspective can be purely route or survey, but often it is a mix of the two that is used in navigation.
Spatial cognition — Active navigation appears to have a bigger impact on the establishment of route knowledge, whereas the use of a map seemingly better supports survey knowledge about more large-scaled complex environments.
Spatial cognition — == Individual differences == There are also individual differences when it comes to experiencing space and the spatial cognition that people have.
Spatial cognition — When looking at individual differences, it appears that most people have a preference for one reference frame with a different use of strategies to represent space.
Spatial cognition — Some people have an inclination towards a route view (also called route strategy), while others have a preference towards a survey view (also called survey or orientation strategy).
Spatial cognition — The people that prefer a route perspective also tend to describe a space more in an egocentric frame of reference.
Spatial cognition — People who have an inclination towards a survey perspective also tend to use an allocentric frame of reference more often.
Spatial cognition — It has been observed that the latter perform better in navigational tasks when they have to learn a route from a map.
Spatial cognition — However, the perspective choice is also influenced by characteristics of the environment.
Spatial cognition — When there is a single path in the environment, people usually choose to employ a route perspective.
Spatial cognition — When the environment is open and filled with landmarks, however, people tend to choose a survey perspective.
Spatial cognition — In this context, a discussion came up about different reference frames, which are the frameworks wherein spatial information is encoded.
Spatial cognition — In general, two of them can be distinguished as the egocentric (Latin ego: "I") and the allocentric (ancient Greek allos: "another, external") reference frame.
Spatial cognition — Within an egocentric reference frame, spatial information is encoded in terms of relations to the physical body of a navigator, whereas the allocentric reference frame defines relations of objects among each other, that is independent of the physical body of an "observer" and thus in a more absolute way, which takes metrical conditions and general alignments like cardinal directions into account.
Spatial cognition — This suggests, that route knowledge, which is supported by direct navigation, is more likely to be encoded within an egocentric reference frame and survey knowledge, which is supported by map learning, to be more likely to be encoded within an allocentric reference frame in turn.
Spatial cognition — Furthermore, an interaction between egocentric and allocentric view is possible.
Spatial cognition — This combination is mostly used when imagining a spatial environment, and this creates a richer representation of the environment.
Spatial cognition — However, when a perspective that has not yet been discovered, it is more demanding to use this technique.
Spatial cognition — == Distortion == As there are biases in other topics of psychology, there are also biases within the concept of spatial cognition.
Spatial cognition — People make systematic errors when they utilize or try to retain information from spatial representations of the environment, such as geographic maps.
Spatial cognition — This shows that their mental representation of the maps and the knowledge they reflect are systematically distorted.
Spatial cognition — Distortions are repetitive errors (bias) that people show in their cognitive maps when they are asked to estimate distances or angles.
Spatial cognition — When an organism’s natural spatial perception is harmed, spatial distortion arises.
Spatial cognition — First of all, people tend to make errors when it comes to estimating a distance.
Spatial cognition — When compared to their true measurements on a curved surface of the globe, there is a misconception of shape, size, distance, or direction between geographical landmarks.
Spatial cognition — This appears to happen because you cannot display 3D surfaces into two perfect dimensions.
Spatial cognition — People tend to regularize their cognitive maps by distorting the position of relatively small features (e.g., cities) to make them conform with the position of larger features (e.g., state boundaries).
Spatial cognition — Our route lengths tend to be overestimated, routes with major bends and curves are estimated longer than lineair routes.
Spatial cognition — When interpreting the geographical relationships between two locations that are in separate geographical or political entities, people make enormous systematic errors.
Spatial cognition — The presence of a border, physical as well as emotional, contributes to biases in estimating distances between elements.
Spatial cognition — People tend to overestimate the distance between two cities that belonged to two different regions or countries.
Spatial cognition — The distortion of distance might also be caused by the presence of salient landmarks.
Spatial cognition — Some environmental features are not cognitively equal; some may be larger, older, more well-known or more central in our daily life activities.
Spatial cognition — These landmarks are frequently used as reference elements for less salient elements.
Spatial cognition — When one element in a location is more salient, the distance between the reference point and the other point is estimated as shorter.
Spatial cognition — When objects are aligned with each other it is much easier to estimate the distance between these objects and to switch between different egocentric viewpoints of both objects.
Spatial cognition — When a mental representation of any spatial environment needs to be created, people tend to have way more errors when the object in a spatial environment are not aligned with one another.
Spatial cognition — This is especially the case when the different objects are memorized separately.
Spatial cognition — When a person sees an object, there will be less errors in spatial cognition when the placement of this object is facing the person's egocentric north.
Spatial cognition — The performance within spatial cognition is the best when the orientation is north-facing and decreases linearly with the angle of misalignment.
Spatial cognition — Finally, the angle in which an object is placed in relation to another object, plays a major role in having distortions when it comes to spatial cognition.
Spatial cognition — The amount of angular errors increased significantly when the angle between two objects exceeds 90 degrees.
Spatial cognition — This phenomenon occurs in all age groups, e.g. younger, middle-aged and older adults.
Spatial cognition — When an angle is unknown and has to be estimated, people tend to guess close to 90 degrees.
Spatial cognition — Besides that, the angular error also increases when the object or place towards which we are pointing (outside our visual field) is further away from our egocentric space.
Spatial cognition — Pointing errors are less towards places that are familiar than towards unfamiliar places.
Spatial cognition — When people have to use their spatial memory to guess an angle, forward errors are significantly smaller than backward errors, implying that memorizing the opposite direction is more difficult than memorizing the forward direction of travel.
Spatial cognition — == Coding == There are many strategies used to spatially encode the environment, and they are often used together within the same task.
Spatial cognition — In a recent study, König et aliae provided further evidence by letting participants learn the positions of streets and houses from an interactive map.
Spatial cognition — Participants reproduced their knowledge in both relative and absolute terms by indicating the positions of houses and streets in relation to one another and their absolute locations using cardinal directions.
Spatial cognition — Some participants were allowed three seconds to form their description, while others were not given a time limit.
Spatial cognition — Their conclusions show that positions of houses were best remembered in relative tasks, while streets were best remembered in absolute tasks, and that increasing allotted time for cognitive reasoning improved performance for both.
Spatial cognition — These findings suggest, that circumscribed objects like houses, which would be sensory available at one moment during an active exploration, are more likely to be encoded in a relative/binary coded way and that time for cognitive reasoning allows the conversion into an absolute/unitary coded format, which is the deduction of their absolute position in line with cardinal directions, compass bearings etc.
Spatial cognition — Contrary, bigger and more abstract objects like streets are more likely to be encoded in an absolute manner from the beginning.
Spatial cognition — That confirms the view of mixed strategies, in this case that spatial information of different objects is coded in distinct ways within the same task.
Spatial cognition — Moreover, the orientation and location of objects like houses seems to be primarily learned in an action-oriented way, which is also in line with an enactive framework for human cognition.
Spatial cognition — == Sex differences == In a study of two congeneric rodent species, sex differences in hippocampal size were predicted by sex-specific patterns of spatial cognition.
Spatial cognition — Hippocampal size is known to correlate positively with maze performance in laboratory mouse strains and with selective pressure for spatial memory among passerine bird species.
Spatial cognition — In polygamous vole species (Rodentia: Microtus), males range more widely than females in the field and perform better on laboratory measures of spatial ability; both of these differences are absent in monogamous vole species.
Spatial cognition — Ten females and males were taken from natural populations of two vole species, the polygamous meadow vole, M. pennsylvanicus, and the monogamous pine vole, M. pinetorum.
Spatial cognition — Only in the polygamous species do males have larger hippocampi relative to the entire brain than do females.
Spatial cognition — One study aimed to determine whether male cuttlefish (Sepia officinalis; cephalopod mollusc) range over a larger area than females and whether this difference is associated with a cognitive dimorphism in orientation abilities.
Spatial cognition — First, the distance travelled by sexually immature and mature cuttlefish of both sexes when placed in an open field was assessed (test 1).
Spatial cognition — Second, cuttlefish were trained to solve a spatial task in a T-maze, and the spatial strategy preferentially used (right/left turn or visual cues) was determined (test 2).
Spatial cognition — The results showed that sexually mature males travelled a longer distance in test 1, and were more likely to use visual cues to orient in test 2, compared with the other three groups.
Spatial cognition — Navigation is the ability of animals including humans to locate, track, and follow paths to arrive at a desired destination.
Spatial cognition — Navigation requires information about the environment to be acquired from the body and landmarks of the environment as frames of reference to create a mental representation of the environment, forming a cognitive map.
Spatial cognition — Humans navigate by transitioning between different spaces and coordinating both egocentric and allocentric frames of reference.
Spatial cognition — Locomotion is the process of movement from one place to another, in animals including humans.
Spatial cognition — Locomotion helps you understand an environment by moving through a space in order to create a mental representation of it.
Spatial cognition — Wayfinding is defined as an active process of following or deciding upon a path between one place to another through mental representations.
Spatial cognition — It involves processes such as representation, planning and decision which help to avoid obstacles, to stay on course or to regulate pace when approaching particular objects.
Spatial cognition — According to Dan Montello's space classification, there are four levels of space with the third being environmental.
Spatial cognition — The environmental space represents a very large space, like a city, and can only be fully explored through movement since all objects and space are not directly visible.
Spatial cognition — Also Barbara Tversky systematized the space, but this time taking into consideration the three dimensions that correspond to the axes of the human body and its extensions: above/below, front/back and left/right.
Spatial cognition — Tversky ultimately proposed a fourfold classification of navigable space: space of the body, space around the body, space of navigation and space of graphics.
Spatial cognition — === Human navigation === In human navigation people visualize different routes in their minds to plan how to get from one place to another.
Spatial cognition — The things which they rely on to plan these routes vary from person to person and are the basis of differing navigational strategies.
Spatial cognition — Some people use measures of distance and absolute directional terms (north, south, east, and west) in order to visualize the best pathway from point to point.
Spatial cognition — The use of these more general, external cues as directions is considered part of an allocentric navigation strategy.
Spatial cognition — Allocentric navigation is typically seen in males and is beneficial primarily in large and/or unfamiliar environments.
Spatial cognition — This likely has some basis in evolution when males would have to navigate through large and unfamiliar environments while hunting.
Spatial cognition — The use of allocentric strategies when navigating primarily activates the hippocampus and parahippocampus in the brain.
Spatial cognition — This navigation strategy relies more on a mental, spatial map than visible cues, giving it an advantage in unknown areas but a flexibility to be used in smaller environments as well.
Spatial cognition — The fact that it is mainly males that favor this strategy is likely related to the generalization that males are better navigators than females as it is better able to be applied in a greater variety of settings.
Spatial cognition — Egocentric navigation relies on more local landmarks and personal directions (left/right) to navigate and visualize a pathway.
Spatial cognition — This reliance on more local and well-known stimuli for finding their way makes it difficult to apply in new locations, but is instead most effective in smaller, familiar environments.
Spatial cognition — Evolutionarily, egocentric navigation likely comes from our ancestors who would forage for their food and need to be able to return to the same places daily to find edible plants.
Spatial cognition — This foraging usually occurred in relatively nearby areas and was most commonly done by the females in hunter-gatherer societies.
Spatial cognition — Females, today, are typically better at knowing where various landmarks are and often rely on them when giving directions.
Spatial cognition — Egocentric navigation causes high levels of activation in the right parietal lobe and prefrontal regions of the brain that are involved in visuospatial processing.
Spatial cognition — Franz and Mallot proposed a navigation hierarchy in Robotics and Autonomous Systems 30 (2006):
Spatial cognition — === Wayfinding taxonomy === There are two types of human wayfinding: aided and unaided.
Spatial cognition — Aided wayfinding requires a person to use various types of media, such as maps, GPS, directional signage, etc., in their navigation process which generally involves low spatial reasoning and is less cognitively demanding.
Spatial cognition — Unaided wayfinding can be subdivided into a taxonomy of tasks depending on whether it is undirected or directed, which basically makes the distinction of whether there is a precise destination or not: undirected wayfinding means that a person is simply exploring an environment for pleasure without any set destination.
Spatial cognition — Directed wayfinding, instead, can be further subdivided into search vs. target approximation.
Spatial cognition — Search means that a person does not know where the destination is located and must find it either in an unfamiliar environment, which is labeled as an uninformed search, or in a familiar environment, labeled as an informed search.
Spatial cognition — In target approximation, on the other hand, the location of the destination is known to the navigator but a further distinction is made based on whether the navigator knows how to arrive or not to the destination.
Spatial cognition — Path following means that the environment, the path, and the destination are all known which means that the navigator simply follows the path they already know and arrive at the destination without much thought.
Spatial cognition — For example, when you are in your city and walking on the same path as you normally take from your house to your job or university.
Spatial cognition — However, path finding means that the navigator knows where the destination is but does not know the route they have to take to arrive at the destination: you know where a specific store is but you do not know how to arrive there or what path to take.
Spatial cognition — If the navigator does not know the environment, it is called path search which means that only the destination is known while neither the path nor the environment is: you are in a new city and need to arrive at the train station but do not know how to get there.
Spatial cognition — Path planning, on the other hand, means that the navigator knows both where the destination is and is familiar with the environment so they only need to plan the route or path that they should take to arrive at their target.
Spatial cognition — For example, if you are in your city and need to get to a specific store that you know the destination of but do not know the specific path you need to take to get there.
Spatial cognition — === Individual differences in navigation and wayfinding === Navigation and wayfinding may differ between people by gender, age, and other attributes.
Spatial cognition — Visuospatial abilities. i.e. the generation, retaining, and transformation of abstract visual images.
Spatial cognition — Visuospatial abilities can be distinguished in sub-factors as spatial perception, spatial visualisation, and mental rotation and measured with specific tasks.
Spatial cognition — Spatial-related inclinations: i.e., the preferences self-reported (using questionnaires) related to spatial and environment information and settings such as spatial anxiety, sense of direction (personal evaluation of one’s ability to orient and locate oneself within an environment), survey and route preference (also called orientation and route strategies; people’s preferred way to represent the environment in map-like or person point of view, pleasure of exploring (individuals who enjoy exploration) and spatial self-efficacy (the belief to be able to accomplish a spatial task).
Spatial cognition — Experimental, correlational and case study approaches are used to find patterns in individual differences.
Spatial cognition — Correlations approach is based on a modality to understand individual differences in navigation and wayfinding abilities to compare groups or examining the relation between variables at the continuous level.
Spatial cognition — Experimental approach examines the causality of the relationship between variables.
Spatial cognition — It manipulates one variable (independent variable) and investigates the impact on environment recall (dependent variable).
Spatial cognition — Case studies approach is used to understand to what extent a particular profile is related to spatial representation and associated features such as, cases of brain lesions or degenerative diseases (involving brain structures and network of cognitive map) or cases of cognitive and behavioural difficulties in acquiring environment information in absence of brain deficits (as in the case of developmental topographical disorientation).
Spatial cognition — == Evidence == Evidence shows there is a link between small scale spatial abilities and large scale spatial abilities.
Spatial cognition — More specifically, there is a relation between visuospatial abilities (small scale abilities) with wayfinding attitudes (spatial self evaluation on large scale) on one’s ability to create a mental representation of the environment, or environment representation (large scale abilities).
Spatial cognition — Evidence presented in this section will focus on the research findings of correlational studies.
Spatial cognition — Correlational studies between variables at a continuous level aim to test the degree to which small-scale visuospatial cognitive abilities and large-scale abilities are related.
Spatial cognition — === Correlational approach === Moreover, correlational studies are also based on comparing groups on individual differences of navigation and are wayfinding related .
Spatial cognition — This may involve comparing the extreme scores of individual differences of participants (high vs low self reports in wayfinding attitude, high vs low small-scale abilities) and examining the difference in spatial and environment learning.
Spatial cognition — Or comparing the extreme high and low performance (after an environment learning task, high or low) and examining the difference in small-scale spatial abilities and wayfinding attitudes.
Spatial cognition — Concerning the correlational studies at continuous level a pioneering study was made by Allen et al. (1996).
Spatial cognition — The authors measured recall performance and assessed visuospatial (small scale) abilities.
Spatial cognition — Visuospatial abilities were measured by assessing spatial visualization, mental rotation and spatial memory tasks.
Spatial cognition — The structural equation model showed that spatial sequential memory serves as a mediator in the relationship between the visuospatial ability factor and environmental knowledge Further, Hegarthy et al., (2006) asked participants to learn a path in a real, virtual, and videotaped environment.
Spatial cognition — After the learning phase, they were asked to estimate the distance and direction of certain landmarks in the environment.
Spatial cognition — Using a structural equation model, results indicate that sense of direction and spatial ability factors are related; and that both factors are linked to verbal ability.
Spatial cognition — Instead, both spatial ability and sense of direction predict environmental learning, sense of direction predicts direct experience, and visuospatial ability shares a strong link to visual learning (both virtual and videotaped).
Spatial cognition — Both correlational studies showed the relation between small scale spatial abilities with large scale spatial abilities (examined with navigation learning).
Spatial cognition — Allen et al., (1996) suggests that the relation between these variables is mediated.
Spatial cognition — A confirmation that the relation between small scale spatial abilities with large scale spatial abilities can be mediated is shown by other evidence.
Spatial cognition — For instance Meneghetti et al., (2016) showed that mental rotation abilities (small scale ability) are related to environment learning (path virtually acquired – a reproduction of large scale ability-) by the mediation of visuospatial working memory (i.e. the ability to process and maintain temporary visuospatial information).
Spatial cognition — === Group comparison === An example of group comparison based on individual preferences is offered by Pazzaglia & Taylor (2007).
Spatial cognition — They selected individuals with high and low preferences survey preference (i.e. preference to form a mental map) to examine the difference in performance in environment learning (by several task).
Spatial cognition — The results showed that high survey group made better performance, especially less navigation errors, than low survey group.
Spatial cognition — An example of group comparison based on spatial environment performance is offered by Weisberg et al. (2014).
Spatial cognition — They were tested for their visuospatial abilities (small scale) and wayfinding preferences.
Spatial cognition — Then, they performed pointing performance (within and between routes) and model building.
Spatial cognition — The results showed that participants making good pointing performance (between and within the paths) showed high visuospatial abilities (mental rotation) and wayfinding preferences (sense of direction).
Spatial cognition — === Gender differences === Gender is a source of individual differences in navigation and wayfinding.
Spatial cognition — Men show more confidence during navigation in comparison to women and in the final environment representation accuracy even the gender difference can be attenuated by some factors (as outcome variables, feedback, familiarity).
Spatial cognition — Further two different wayfinding strategies are used by men and women: women prefer to use route strategy more, whilst men use survey (orientation) strategy more.
Spatial cognition — Route strategy is related to following directional instructions, whilst survey (orientation) strategy is the use of references in the environment in relation to their position.
Spatial cognition — Examining relations at the continuous level, gender is a predictor that can influence navigation success - both males and females can perform successfully.
Spatial cognition — However, the ability to form mental representations of new environments after navigation is impacted by different patterns of relations involving strategy, beliefs/self-efficacy and visuospatial cognitive abilities.
Spatial cognition — Therefore, both males and females involve the use of visuospatial individual factors, abilities and inclinations, that with different patterns of relations influence navigation and wayfinding performance.
Spatial cognition — === Age differences === In case of older adults, abilities in the spatial domain decrease.
Spatial cognition — Indeed, it is necessary to consider what kind of spatial ability we are considering, whether it is small scale, large scale spatial ability, or the spatial self-evaluations (as wayfinding attitudes), and how these variables are related to each other.
Spatial cognition — Moreover, some other factors that decline with aging could also impact spatial abilities, such as memory functions, executive control, and other cognitive factors.
Spatial cognition — Small-scale abilities, such as mental rotation, spatial visualization, spatial perception, and perspective taking decline.
Spatial cognition — Even the course of decreasing is related to the type of abilities, task features, and other individual differences (such as gender and expertise in these abilities).
Spatial cognition — In general, the abilities decline around 60, and can start as early as 50 in perspective taking.
Spatial cognition — Concerning wayfinding attitudes, generally self-reported ones, evidence suggests that they tend to be quite stable across the lifespan, such as sense of direction, with some changes such as the light increase of spatial anxiety.
Spatial cognition — Differences between young and older adults are related to several factors, both at the individual and at the environmental level.
Spatial cognition — In fact, older adults are more likely to decline in spatial tasks based on allocentric knowledge (self-to object relations) with respect to egocentric knowledge (self-to object relation).
Spatial cognition — When the task requires to recognize information, there is less age difference with respect to when active recall is required.
Spatial cognition — When the environment is familiar, it is less subject to gender differences with respect to young adults.
Spatial cognition — In studies involving healthy adults aged 18-78, it was found that difficulty increased, particularly from age 70.
Spatial cognition — Biological factors involved in the decline is the decreased activity of the hippocampus, the parahippocampal gyrus, and the retrosplenial cortex, resulting in difficulties in acquiring new spatial knowledge and applying them.
Spatial cognition — Despite the decline of spatial abilities (such as visuospatial working memory and rotation), both spatial abilities and wayfinding attitudes contribute to different extents to maintain spatial learning and navigation accuracy in elderly.
Spatial cognition — Indeed studies with samples of older adults showed that despite the decline of spatial abilities (small-scale), the latter still have a functional role in environment learning.
Spatial cognition — Other studies showed the positive role of wayfinding attitudes, such as pleasure in exploring places, in maintaining spatial learning accuracy.
Spatial cognition — This is beneficial because spatial learning is crucial for elders’ security, and subsequently, their autonomy, an indicator of quality of life.
Spatial cognition — == See also == Spatial ability Spatial contextual awareness Spatial memory Sense of direction Space mapping
Spatial cognition — == External links == Spatial Cognition and Computation Archived 2011-08-03 at the Wayback Machine http://www.spatial-cognition.de/ What is Spatial Cognition?
Spatial cognition — Archived 2011-09-03 at the Wayback Machine An article describing spatial cognition The Spatial Intelligence and Learning Center (SILC)
Artificial intelligence — Artificial intelligence (AI) is the capability of computational systems to perform tasks typically associated with human intelligence, such as learning, reasoning, problem-solving, perception, and decision-making.
Artificial intelligence — It is a field of research in computer science that develops and studies methods and software that enable machines to perceive their environment and use learning and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.
Artificial intelligence — High-profile applications of AI include advanced web search engines (e.g., Google Search); recommendation systems (used by YouTube, Amazon, and Netflix); virtual assistants (e.g., Google Assistant, Siri, and Alexa); autonomous vehicles (e.g., Waymo); generative and creative tools (e.g., language models and AI art); and superhuman play and analysis in strategy games (e.g., chess and Go).
Artificial intelligence — However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's not labeled AI anymore." Various subfields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools.
Artificial intelligence — The traditional goals of AI research include learning, reasoning, knowledge representation, planning, natural language processing, perception, and support for robotics.
Artificial intelligence — To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including search and mathematical optimization, formal logic, artificial neural networks, and methods based on statistics, operations research, and economics.
Artificial intelligence — AI also draws upon psychology, linguistics, philosophy, neuroscience, and other fields.
Artificial intelligence — Some companies, such as OpenAI, Google DeepMind and Meta, aim to create artificial general intelligence (AGI)—AI that can complete virtually any cognitive task at least as well as a human.
Artificial intelligence — Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956, and the field went through multiple cycles of optimism throughout its history, followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as AI winters.
Artificial intelligence — Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when graphics processing units started being used to accelerate neural networks and deep learning outperformed previous AI techniques.
Artificial intelligence — In the 2020s, an ongoing period of rapid progress in advanced generative AI became known as the AI boom.
Artificial intelligence — Generative AI's ability to create and modify content has led to several unintended consequences and harms, which has raised ethical concerns about AI's long-term effects and potential existential risks, prompting discussions about regulatory policies to ensure the safety and benefits of the technology.
Artificial intelligence — == Goals == The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into subproblems.
Artificial intelligence — These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display.
Artificial intelligence — The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research.
Artificial intelligence — === Reasoning and problem-solving === Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical deductions.
Artificial intelligence — By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with uncertain or incomplete information, employing concepts from probability and economics.
Artificial intelligence — Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": They become exponentially slower as the problems grow.
Artificial intelligence — Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model.
Artificial intelligence — Knowledge representation and knowledge engineering allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts.
Artificial intelligence — Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval, scene interpretation, clinical decision support, knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large databases), and other areas.
Artificial intelligence — A knowledge base is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program.
Artificial intelligence — An ontology is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.
Artificial intelligence — Knowledge bases need to represent things such as objects, properties, categories, and relations between objects; situations, events, states, and time; causes and effects; knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know); default reasoning (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing); and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
Artificial intelligence — Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous); and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).
Artificial intelligence — There is also the difficulty of knowledge acquisition, the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications.
Artificial intelligence — === Planning and decision-making === An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world.
Artificial intelligence — A rational agent has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.
Artificial intelligence — In automated decision-making, the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid.
Artificial intelligence — The decision-making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the "utility") that measures how much the agent prefers it.
Artificial intelligence — For each possible action, it can calculate the "expected utility": the utility of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur.
Artificial intelligence — In classical planning, the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.
Artificial intelligence — In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic").
Artificial intelligence — It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked.
Artificial intelligence — In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved.
Artificial intelligence — These can be learned (e.g., with inverse reinforcement learning), or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.
Artificial intelligence — Information value theory can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.
Artificial intelligence — The space of possible future actions and situations is typically intractably large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain of what the outcome will be.
Artificial intelligence — A Markov decision process has a transition model that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way and a reward function that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action.
Artificial intelligence — The policy could be calculated (e.g., by iteration), be heuristic, or it can be learned.
Artificial intelligence — Game theory describes the rational behavior of multiple interacting agents and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents.
Artificial intelligence — === Learning === Machine learning is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.
Artificial intelligence — Unsupervised learning analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.
Artificial intelligence — Supervised learning requires labeling the training data with the expected answers, and comes in two main varieties: classification (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and regression (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input).
Artificial intelligence — In reinforcement learning, the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones.
Artificial intelligence — Transfer learning is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.
Artificial intelligence — Deep learning is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired artificial neural networks for all of these types of learning.
Artificial intelligence — Computational learning theory can assess learners by computational complexity, by sample complexity (how much data is required), or by other notions of optimization.
Artificial intelligence — === Natural language processing === Natural language processing (NLP) allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages.
Artificial intelligence — Specific problems include speech recognition, speech synthesis, machine translation, information extraction, information retrieval and question answering.
Artificial intelligence — Early work, based on Noam Chomsky's generative grammar and semantic networks, had difficulty with word-sense disambiguation unless restricted to small domains called "micro-worlds" (due to the common sense knowledge problem).
Artificial intelligence — Margaret Masterman believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that thesauri and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
Artificial intelligence — Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include word embedding (representing words, typically as vectors encoding their meaning), transformers (a deep learning architecture using an attention mechanism), and others.
Artificial intelligence — In 2019, generative pre-trained transformer (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text, and by 2023, these models were able to get human-level scores on the bar exam, SAT test, GRE test, and many other real-world applications.
Artificial intelligence — === Perception === Machine perception is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active lidar, sonar, radar, and tactile sensors) to deduce aspects of the world.
Artificial intelligence — The field includes speech recognition, image classification, facial recognition, object recognition, object tracking, and robotic perception.
Artificial intelligence — Affective computing is a field that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process, or simulate human feeling, emotion, and mood.
Artificial intelligence — For example, some virtual assistants are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate human–computer interaction.
Artificial intelligence — However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.
Artificial intelligence — Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual sentiment analysis and, more recently, multimodal sentiment analysis, wherein AI classifies the effects displayed by a videotaped subject.
Artificial intelligence — === General intelligence === A machine with artificial general intelligence would be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence.
Artificial intelligence — == Techniques == AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above.
Artificial intelligence — === Search and optimization === AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.
Artificial intelligence — There are two very different kinds of search used in AI: state space search and local search.
Artificial intelligence — ==== State space search ==== State space search searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.
Artificial intelligence — For example, planning algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called means-ends analysis.
Artificial intelligence — Simple exhaustive searches are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the search space (the number of places to search) quickly grows to astronomical numbers.
Artificial intelligence — The result is a search that is too slow or never completes. "Heuristics" or "rules of thumb" can help prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal.
Artificial intelligence — It searches through a tree of possible moves and countermoves, looking for a winning position.
Artificial intelligence — ==== Local search ==== Local search uses mathematical optimization to find a solution to a problem.
Artificial intelligence — Gradient descent is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a loss function.
Artificial intelligence — Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks, through the backpropagation algorithm.
Artificial intelligence — Another type of local search is evolutionary computation, which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them, selecting only the fittest to survive each generation.
Artificial intelligence — Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are particle swarm optimization (inspired by bird flocking) and ant colony optimization (inspired by ant trails).
Artificial intelligence — Formal logic comes in two main forms: propositional logic (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses logical connectives such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies") and predicate logic (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses quantifiers such as "Every X is a Y" and "There are some Xs that are Ys").
Artificial intelligence — Deductive reasoning in logic is the process of proving a new statement (conclusion) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the premises).
Artificial intelligence — Proofs can be structured as proof trees, in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to parent nodes by inference rules.
Artificial intelligence — Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or axioms.
Artificial intelligence — In the case of Horn clauses, problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning forwards from the premises or backwards from the problem.
Artificial intelligence — In the more general case of the clausal form of first-order logic, resolution is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved.
Artificial intelligence — Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is undecidable, and therefore intractable.
Artificial intelligence — However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the logic programming language Prolog, is Turing complete.
Artificial intelligence — Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other symbolic programming languages.
Artificial intelligence — Non-monotonic logics, including logic programming with negation as failure, are designed to handle default reasoning.
Artificial intelligence — Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
Artificial intelligence — Many problems in AI (including reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information.
Artificial intelligence — AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from probability theory and economics.
Artificial intelligence — Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using decision theory, decision analysis, and information value theory.
Artificial intelligence — These tools include models such as Markov decision processes, dynamic decision networks, game theory and mechanism design.
Artificial intelligence — Bayesian networks are a tool that can be used for reasoning (using the Bayesian inference algorithm), learning (using the expectation–maximization algorithm), planning (using decision networks) and perception (using dynamic Bayesian networks).
Artificial intelligence — Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing, and finding explanations for streams of data, thus helping perception systems analyze processes that occur over time (e.g., hidden Markov models or Kalman filters).
Artificial intelligence — === Classifiers and statistical learning methods === The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.
Artificial intelligence — Classifiers are functions that use pattern matching to determine the closest match.
Artificial intelligence — Each pattern (also called an "observation") is labeled with a certain predefined class.
Artificial intelligence — When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience.
Artificial intelligence — The decision tree is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.
Artificial intelligence — K-nearest neighbor algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and Kernel methods such as the support vector machine (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s.
Artificial intelligence — The naive Bayes classifier is reportedly the "most widely used learner" at Google, due in part to its scalability.
Artificial intelligence — An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as artificial neurons, which loosely model the neurons in a biological brain.
Artificial intelligence — It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data.
Artificial intelligence — Each node applies a function and once the weight crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer.
Artificial intelligence — A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers.
Artificial intelligence — Learning algorithms for neural networks use local search to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training.
Artificial intelligence — Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and find patterns in data.
Artificial intelligence — Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.
Artificial intelligence — Long short-term memory networks (LSTMs) are recurrent neural networks that better preserve longterm dependencies and are less sensitive to the vanishing gradient problem.
Artificial intelligence — Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) use layers of kernels to more efficiently process local patterns.
Artificial intelligence — This local processing is especially important in image processing, where the early CNN layers typically identify simple local patterns such as edges and curves, with subsequent layers detecting more complex patterns like textures, and eventually whole objects.
Artificial intelligence — Deep learning uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs.
Artificial intelligence — The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input.
Artificial intelligence — For example, in image processing, lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits, letters, or faces.
Artificial intelligence — Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including computer vision, speech recognition, natural language processing, image classification, and others.
Artificial intelligence — The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2021.
Artificial intelligence — The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to GPUs) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant curated datasets used for benchmark testing, such as ImageNet.
Artificial intelligence — === GPT === Generative pre-trained transformers (GPT) are large language models (LLMs) that generate text based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences.
Artificial intelligence — Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text that can be from the Internet.
Artificial intelligence — The pretraining consists of predicting the next token (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation).
Artificial intelligence — Throughout this pretraining, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token.
Artificial intelligence — Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful, and harmless, usually with a technique called reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
Artificial intelligence — These can be reduced with RLHF and quality data, but the problem has been getting worse for reasoning systems.
Artificial intelligence — Such systems are used in chatbots, which allow people to ask a question or request a task in simple text.
Artificial intelligence — Current models and services include ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini, Copilot, and Meta AI.
Artificial intelligence — Multimodal GPT models can process different types of data (modalities) such as images, videos, sound, and text.
Artificial intelligence — In the late 2010s, graphics processing units (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized TensorFlow software had replaced previously used central processing unit (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic) machine learning models' training.
Artificial intelligence — Specialized programming languages such as Prolog were used in early AI research, but general-purpose programming languages like Python have become predominant.
Artificial intelligence — The transistor density in integrated circuits has been observed to roughly double every 18 months—a trend known as Moore's law, named after the Intel co-founder Gordon Moore, who first identified it.
Artificial intelligence — Improvements in GPUs have been even faster, a trend sometimes called Huang's law, named after Nvidia co-founder and CEO Jensen Huang.
Artificial intelligence — == Applications == AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including: search engines (such as Google Search), targeting online advertisements, recommendation systems (offered by Netflix, YouTube or Amazon), driving internet traffic, targeted advertising (AdSense, Facebook), virtual assistants (such as Siri or Alexa), autonomous vehicles (including drones, ADAS and self-driving cars), automatic language translation (Microsoft Translator, Google Translate), facial recognition (Apple's FaceID or Microsoft's DeepFace and Google's FaceNet) and image labeling (used by Facebook, Apple's Photos and TikTok).
Artificial intelligence — The application of AI in medicine and medical research has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.
Artificial intelligence — Through the lens of the Hippocratic Oath, medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
Artificial intelligence — For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating big data.
Artificial intelligence — This is particularly important for organoid and tissue engineering development which use microscopy imaging as a key technique in fabrication.
Artificial intelligence — It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.
Artificial intelligence — For example, AlphaFold 2 (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D structure of a protein.
Artificial intelligence — In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.
Artificial intelligence — In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for Parkinson's disease drug treatments.
Artificial intelligence — Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of alpha-synuclein (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease).
Artificial intelligence — They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold and reduce the cost by a thousand-fold.
Artificial intelligence — Game playing programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.
Artificial intelligence — Deep Blue became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion, Garry Kasparov, on 11 May 1997.
Artificial intelligence — In 2011, in a Jeopardy! quiz show exhibition match, IBM's question answering system, Watson, defeated the two greatest Jeopardy! champions, Brad Rutter and Ken Jennings, by a significant margin.
Artificial intelligence — In March 2016, AlphaGo won 4 out of 5 games of Go in a match with Go champion Lee Sedol, becoming the first computer Go-playing system to beat a professional Go player without handicaps.
Artificial intelligence — Other programs handle imperfect-information games, such as the poker-playing program Pluribus.
Artificial intelligence — DeepMind developed increasingly generalistic reinforcement learning models, such as with MuZero, which could be trained to play chess, Go, or Atari games.
Artificial intelligence — In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in StarCraft II, a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.
Artificial intelligence — In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning.
Artificial intelligence — In 2024, Google DeepMind introduced SIMA, a type of AI capable of autonomously playing nine previously unseen open-world video games by observing screen output, as well as executing short, specific tasks in response to natural language instructions.
Artificial intelligence — === Mathematics === Large language models, such as GPT-4, Gemini, Claude, Llama or Mistral, are increasingly used in mathematics.
Artificial intelligence — These probabilistic models are versatile, but can also produce wrong answers in the form of hallucinations.
Artificial intelligence — They sometimes need a large database of mathematical problems to learn from, but also methods such as supervised fine-tuning or trained classifiers with human-annotated data to improve answers for new problems and learn from corrections.
Artificial intelligence — A February 2024 study showed that the performance of some language models for reasoning capabilities in solving math problems not included in their training data was low, even for problems with only minor deviations from trained data.
Artificial intelligence — One technique to improve their performance involves training the models to produce correct reasoning steps, rather than just the correct result.
Artificial intelligence — The Alibaba Group developed a version of its Qwen models called Qwen2-Math, that achieved state-of-the-art performance on several mathematical benchmarks, including 84% accuracy on the MATH dataset of competition mathematics problems.
Artificial intelligence — In January 2025, Microsoft proposed the technique rStar-Math that leverages Monte Carlo tree search and step-by-step reasoning, enabling a relatively small language model like Qwen-7B to solve 53% of the AIME 2024 and 90% of the MATH benchmark problems.
Artificial intelligence — Alternatively, dedicated models for mathematical problem solving with higher precision for the outcome including proof of theorems have been developed such as AlphaTensor, AlphaGeometry, AlphaProof and AlphaEvolve all from Google DeepMind, Llemma from EleutherAI or Julius.
Artificial intelligence — When natural language is used to describe mathematical problems, converters can transform such prompts into a formal language such as Lean to define mathematical tasks.
Artificial intelligence — The experimental model Gemini Deep Think accepts natural language prompts directly and achieved gold medal results in the International Math Olympiad of 2025.
Artificial intelligence — Some models have been developed to solve challenging problems and reach good results in benchmark tests, others to serve as educational tools in mathematics.
Artificial intelligence — === Finance === Finance is one of the fastest growing sectors where applied AI tools are being deployed: from retail online banking to investment advice and insurance, where automated "robot advisers" have been in use for some years.
Artificial intelligence — According to Nicolas Firzli, director of the World Pensions & Investments Forum, it may be too early to see the emergence of highly innovative AI-informed financial products and services.
Artificial intelligence — He argues that "the deployment of AI tools will simply further automatise things: destroying tens of thousands of jobs in banking, financial planning, and pension advice in the process, but I'm not sure it will unleash a new wave of [e.g., sophisticated] pension innovation."
Artificial intelligence — The main applications enhance command and control, communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.
Artificial intelligence — Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and autonomous vehicles.
Artificial intelligence — AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions, target acquisition, coordination and deconfliction of distributed Joint Fires between networked combat vehicles, both human-operated and autonomous.
Artificial intelligence — AI agents are software entities designed to perceive their environment, make decisions, and take actions autonomously to achieve specific goals.
Artificial intelligence — AI agents are used in various applications, including virtual assistants, chatbots, autonomous vehicles, game-playing systems, and industrial robotics.
Artificial intelligence — AI agents operate within the constraints of their programming, available computational resources, and hardware limitations.
Artificial intelligence — This means they are restricted to performing tasks within their defined scope and have finite memory and processing capabilities.
Artificial intelligence — In real-world applications, AI agents often face time constraints for decision-making and action execution.
Artificial intelligence — Many AI agents incorporate learning algorithms, enabling them to improve their performance over time through experience or training.
Artificial intelligence — Using machine learning, AI agents can adapt to new situations and optimise their behaviour for their designated tasks.
Artificial intelligence — === Web search === Microsoft introduced Copilot Search in February 2023 under the name Bing Chat, as a built-in feature for Microsoft Edge and Bing mobile app.
Artificial intelligence — Copilot Search provides AI-generated summaries and step-by-step reasoning based of information from web publishers, ranked in Bing Search.
Artificial intelligence — For safety, Copilot uses AI-based classifiers and filters to reduce potentially harmful content.
Artificial intelligence — AI Overviews uses Gemini 2.5 to provide contextual answers to user queries based on web content.
Artificial intelligence — === Sexuality === Applications of AI in this domain include AI-enabled menstruation and fertility trackers that analyze user data to offer predictions, AI-integrated sex toys (e.g., teledildonics), AI-generated sexual education content, and AI agents that simulate sexual and romantic partners (e.g., Replika).
Artificial intelligence — AI is also used for the production of non-consensual deepfake pornography, raising significant ethical and legal concerns.
Artificial intelligence — AI technologies have also been used to attempt to identify online gender-based violence and online sexual grooming of minors.
Artificial intelligence — === Other industry-specific tasks === There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions.
Artificial intelligence — In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported having incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.
Artificial intelligence — A few examples are energy storage, medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions, foreign policy, or supply chain management.
Artificial intelligence — AI has been used to investigate patterns in large-scale and small-scale evacuations using historical data from GPS, videos or social media.
Artificial intelligence — In agriculture, AI has helped farmers to increase yield and identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments.
Artificial intelligence — AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
Artificial intelligence — Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights." For example, it is used for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy.
Artificial intelligence — Additionally, it could be used for activities in space, such as space exploration, including the analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
Artificial intelligence — During the 2024 Indian elections, US$50 million was spent on authorized AI-generated content, notably by creating deepfakes of allied (including sometimes deceased) politicians to better engage with voters, and by translating speeches to various local languages.
Artificial intelligence — AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems: Demis Hassabis of DeepMind hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".
Artificial intelligence — However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.
Artificial intelligence — In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning.
Artificial intelligence — The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about privacy, surveillance and copyright.
Artificial intelligence — AI-powered devices and services, such as virtual assistants and IoT products, continuously collect personal information, raising concerns about intrusive data gathering and unauthorized access by third parties.
Artificial intelligence — The loss of privacy is further exacerbated by AI's ability to process and combine vast amounts of data, potentially leading to a surveillance society where individual activities are constantly monitored and analyzed without adequate safeguards or transparency.
Artificial intelligence — Sensitive user data collected may include online activity records, geolocation data, video, or audio.
Artificial intelligence — For example, in order to build speech recognition algorithms, Amazon has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed temporary workers to listen to and transcribe some of them.
Artificial intelligence — Opinions about this widespread surveillance range from those who see it as a necessary evil to those for whom it is clearly unethical and a violation of the right to privacy.
Artificial intelligence — AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as data aggregation, de-identification and differential privacy.
Artificial intelligence — Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as Cynthia Dwork, have begun to view privacy in terms of fairness.
Artificial intelligence — Brian Christian wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of "fair use".
Artificial intelligence — Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".
Artificial intelligence — Website owners who do not wish to have their content scraped can indicate it in a "robots.txt" file.
Artificial intelligence — In 2023, leading authors (including John Grisham and Jonathan Franzen) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI.
Artificial intelligence — Another discussed approach is to envision a separate sui generis system of protection for creations generated by AI to ensure fair attribution and compensation for human authors.
Artificial intelligence — ==== Dominance by tech giants ==== The commercial AI scene is dominated by Big Tech companies such as Alphabet Inc., Amazon, Apple Inc., Meta Platforms, and Microsoft.
Artificial intelligence — Some of these players already own the vast majority of existing cloud infrastructure and computing power from data centers, allowing them to entrench further in the marketplace.
Artificial intelligence — In January 2024, the International Energy Agency (IEA) released Electricity 2024, Analysis and Forecast to 2026, forecasting electric power use.
Artificial intelligence — This is the first IEA report to make projections for data centers and power consumption for artificial intelligence and cryptocurrency.
Artificial intelligence — The report states that power demand for these uses might double by 2026, with additional electric power usage equal to electricity used by the whole Japanese nation.
Artificial intelligence — Prodigious power consumption by AI is responsible for the growth of fossil fuel use, and might delay closings of obsolete, carbon-emitting coal energy facilities.
Artificial intelligence — There is a feverish rise in the construction of data centers throughout the US, making large technology firms (e.g., Microsoft, Meta, Google, Amazon) into voracious consumers of electric power.
Artificial intelligence — Projected electric consumption is so immense that there is concern that it will be fulfilled no matter the source.
Artificial intelligence — A ChatGPT search involves the use of 10 times the electrical energy as a Google search.
Artificial intelligence — The large firms are in haste to find power sources – from nuclear energy to geothermal to fusion.
Artificial intelligence — The tech firms argue that – in the long view – AI will be eventually kinder to the environment, but they need the energy now.
Artificial intelligence — AI makes the power grid more efficient and "intelligent", will assist in the growth of nuclear power, and track overall carbon emissions, according to technology firms.
Artificial intelligence — A 2024 Goldman Sachs Research Paper, AI Data Centers and the Coming US Power Demand Surge, found "US power demand (is) likely to experience growth not seen in a generation...." and forecasts that, by 2030, US data centers will consume 8% of US power, as opposed to 3% in 2022, presaging growth for the electrical power generation industry by a variety of means.
Artificial intelligence — Data centers' need for more and more electrical power is such that they might max out the electrical grid.
Artificial intelligence — The Big Tech companies counter that AI can be used to maximize the utilization of the grid by all.
Artificial intelligence — In 2024, the Wall Street Journal reported that big AI companies have begun negotiations with the US nuclear power providers to provide electricity to the data centers.
Artificial intelligence — In March 2024 Amazon purchased a Pennsylvania nuclear-powered data center for US$650 million.
Artificial intelligence — Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang said nuclear power is a good option for the data centers.
Artificial intelligence — In September 2024, Microsoft announced an agreement with Constellation Energy to re-open the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant to provide Microsoft with 100% of all electric power produced by the plant for 20 years.
Artificial intelligence — Reopening the plant, which suffered a partial nuclear meltdown of its Unit 2 reactor in 1979, will require Constellation to get through strict regulatory processes which will include extensive safety scrutiny from the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Artificial intelligence — If approved (this will be the first ever US re-commissioning of a nuclear plant), over 835 megawatts of power – enough for 800,000 homes – of energy will be produced.
Artificial intelligence — The cost for re-opening and upgrading is estimated at US$1.6 billion and is dependent on tax breaks for nuclear power contained in the 2022 US Inflation Reduction Act.
Artificial intelligence — The US government and the state of Michigan are investing almost US$2 billion to reopen the Palisades Nuclear reactor on Lake Michigan.
Artificial intelligence — The Three Mile Island facility will be renamed the Crane Clean Energy Center after Chris Crane, a nuclear proponent and former CEO of Exelon who was responsible for Exelon's spinoff of Constellation.
Artificial intelligence — After the last approval in September 2023, Taiwan suspended the approval of data centers north of Taoyuan with a capacity of more than 5 MW in 2024, due to power supply shortages.
Artificial intelligence — On the other hand, Singapore imposed a ban on the opening of data centers in 2019 due to electric power, but in 2022, lifted this ban.
Artificial intelligence — Although most nuclear plants in Japan have been shut down after the 2011 Fukushima nuclear accident, according to an October 2024 Bloomberg article in Japanese, cloud gaming services company Ubitus, in which Nvidia has a stake, is looking for land in Japan near a nuclear power plant for a new data center for generative AI.
Artificial intelligence — Ubitus CEO Wesley Kuo said nuclear power plants are the most efficient, cheap and stable power for AI.
Artificial intelligence — On 1 November 2024, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) rejected an application submitted by Talen Energy for approval to supply some electricity from the nuclear power station Susquehanna to Amazon's data center.
Artificial intelligence — Phillips, it is a burden on the electricity grid as well as a significant cost shifting concern to households and other business sectors.
Artificial intelligence — In 2025, a report prepared by the International Energy Agency estimated the greenhouse gas emissions from the energy consumption of AI at 180 million tons.
Artificial intelligence — By 2035, these emissions could rise to 300–500 million tonnes depending on what measures will be taken.
Artificial intelligence — The emissions reduction potential of AI was estimated at 5% of the energy sector emissions, but rebound effects (for example if people switch from public transport to autonomous cars) can reduce it.
Artificial intelligence — YouTube, Facebook and others use recommender systems to guide users to more content.
Artificial intelligence — These AI programs were given the goal of maximizing user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching).
Artificial intelligence — The AI learned that users tended to choose misinformation, conspiracy theories, and extreme partisan content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it.
Artificial intelligence — Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into filter bubbles where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.
Artificial intelligence — This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.
Artificial intelligence — The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society.
Artificial intelligence — After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took some steps to mitigate the problem.
Artificial intelligence — In the early 2020s, generative AI began to create images, audio, and texts that are virtually indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, or human writing, while realistic AI-generated videos became feasible in the mid-2020s.
Artificial intelligence — It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda; one such potential malicious use is deepfakes for computational propaganda.
Artificial intelligence — AI pioneer Geoffrey Hinton expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks.
Artificial intelligence — AI researchers at Microsoft, OpenAI, universities and other organisations have suggested using "personhood credentials" as a way to overcome online deception enabled by AI models.
Artificial intelligence — Bias can be introduced by the way training data is selected and by the way a model is deployed.
Artificial intelligence — If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously harm people (as it can in medicine, finance, recruitment, housing or policing) then the algorithm may cause discrimination.
Artificial intelligence — On June 28, 2015, Google Photos's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black.
Artificial intelligence — The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people, a problem called "sample size disparity".
Artificial intelligence — Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling anything as a "gorilla".
Artificial intelligence — Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon.
Artificial intelligence — COMPAS is a commercial program widely used by U.S. courts to assess the likelihood of a defendant becoming a recidivist.
Artificial intelligence — In 2016, Julia Angwin at ProPublica discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants.
Artificial intelligence — Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.
Artificial intelligence — In 2017, several researchers showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data.
Artificial intelligence — A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender").
Artificial intelligence — The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender".
Artificial intelligence — Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past.
Artificial intelligence — If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future.
Artificial intelligence — If an application then uses these predictions as recommendations, some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.
Artificial intelligence — Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be better than the past.
Artificial intelligence — Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women.
Artificial intelligence — These notions depend on ethical assumptions, and are influenced by beliefs about society.
Artificial intelligence — One broad category is distributive fairness, which focuses on the outcomes, often identifying groups and seeking to compensate for statistical disparities.
Artificial intelligence — Representational fairness tries to ensure that AI systems do not reinforce negative stereotypes or render certain groups invisible.
Artificial intelligence — The most relevant notions of fairness may depend on the context, notably the type of AI application and the stakeholders.
Artificial intelligence — The subjectivity in the notions of bias and fairness makes it difficult for companies to operationalize them.
Artificial intelligence — Having access to sensitive attributes such as race or gender is also considered by many AI ethicists to be necessary in order to compensate for biases, but it may conflict with anti-discrimination laws.
Artificial intelligence — At its 2022 Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (ACM FAccT 2022), the Association for Computing Machinery, in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed.
Artificial intelligence — Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.
Artificial intelligence — Particularly with deep neural networks, in which there are many non-linear relationships between inputs and outputs.
Artificial intelligence — It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works.
Artificial intelligence — There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended.
Artificial intelligence — For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a ruler as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.
Artificial intelligence — Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia.
Artificial intelligence — Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data.
Artificial intelligence — The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading.
Artificial intelligence — People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.
Artificial intelligence — Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make.
Artificial intelligence — Early drafts of the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.
Artificial intelligence — Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight.
Artificial intelligence — Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used.
Artificial intelligence — DARPA established the XAI ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try to solve these problems.
Artificial intelligence — LIME can locally approximate a model's outputs with a simpler, interpretable model.
Artificial intelligence — Multitask learning provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification.
Artificial intelligence — Deconvolution, DeepDream and other generative methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network for computer vision have learned, and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning.
Artificial intelligence — For generative pre-trained transformers, Anthropic developed a technique based on dictionary learning that associates patterns of neuron activations with human-understandable concepts.
Artificial intelligence — Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to bad actors, such as authoritarian governments, terrorists, criminals or rogue states.
Artificial intelligence — A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.
Artificial intelligence — Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially weapons of mass destruction.
Artificial intelligence — Even when used in conventional warfare, they currently cannot reliably choose targets and could potentially kill an innocent person.
Artificial intelligence — In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the United Nations' Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons, however the United States and others disagreed.
Artificial intelligence — By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots.
Artificial intelligence — AI tools make it easier for authoritarian governments to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.
Artificial intelligence — Machine learning, operating this data, can classify potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.
Artificial intelligence — Recommendation systems can precisely target propaganda and misinformation for maximum effect.
Artificial intelligence — Advanced AI can make authoritarian centralized decision-making more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as markets.
Artificial intelligence — All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI facial recognition systems are already being used for mass surveillance in China.
Artificial intelligence — There are many other ways in which AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen.
Artificial intelligence — For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours.
Artificial intelligence — Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment.
Artificial intelligence — In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.
Artificial intelligence — A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term unemployment, but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if productivity gains are redistributed.
Artificial intelligence — Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and Carl Benedikt Frey estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".
Artificial intelligence — The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.
Artificial intelligence — In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence.
Artificial intelligence — Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence; The Economist stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".
Artificial intelligence — Jobs at extreme risk range from paralegals to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy.
Artificial intelligence — From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by Joseph Weizenbaum, about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement.
Artificial intelligence — It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it.
Artificial intelligence — This could, as physicist Stephen Hawking stated, "spell the end of the human race".
Artificial intelligence — This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.
Artificial intelligence — Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them.
Artificial intelligence — Philosopher Nick Bostrom argued that if one gives almost any goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a paperclip maximizer).
Artificial intelligence — Stuart Russell gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead." In order to be safe for humanity, a superintelligence would have to be genuinely aligned with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side".
Artificial intelligence — Second, Yuval Noah Harari argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk.
Artificial intelligence — Things like ideologies, law, government, money and the economy are built on language; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe.
Artificial intelligence — The current prevalence of misinformation suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive.
Artificial intelligence — The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.
Artificial intelligence — Personalities such as Stephen Hawking, Bill Gates, and Elon Musk, as well as AI pioneers such as Yoshua Bengio, Stuart Russell, Demis Hassabis, and Sam Altman, have expressed concerns about existential risk from AI.
Artificial intelligence — In May 2023, Geoffrey Hinton announced his resignation from Google in order to be able to "freely speak out about the risks of AI" without "considering how this impacts Google".
Artificial intelligence — He notably mentioned risks of an AI takeover, and stressed that in order to avoid the worst outcomes, establishing safety guidelines will require cooperation among those competing in use of AI.
Artificial intelligence — In 2023, many leading AI experts endorsed the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war".
Artificial intelligence — AI pioneer Jürgen Schmidhuber did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier." While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors." Andrew Ng also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests." Yann LeCun "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction." In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.
Artificial intelligence — However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research.
Artificial intelligence — Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.
Artificial intelligence — Eliezer Yudkowsky, who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk.
Artificial intelligence — Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions.
Artificial intelligence — The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas.
Artificial intelligence — The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, and was founded at an AAAI symposium in 2005.
Artificial intelligence — Other approaches include Wendell Wallach's "artificial moral agents" and Stuart J.
Artificial intelligence — Active organizations in the AI open-source community include Hugging Face, Google, EleutherAI and Meta.
Artificial intelligence — Various AI models, such as Llama 2, Mistral or Stable Diffusion, have been made open-weight, meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available.
Artificial intelligence — Open-weight models can be freely fine-tuned, which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.
Artificial intelligence — Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation but can also be misused.
Artificial intelligence — Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective.
Artificial intelligence — Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate bioterrorism) and that once released on the Internet, they cannot be deleted everywhere if needed.
Artificial intelligence — === Frameworks === Artificial intelligence projects can be guided by ethical considerations during the design, development, and implementation of an AI system.
Artificial intelligence — An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework, developed by the Alan Turing Institute and based on the SUM values, outlines four main ethical dimensions, defined as follows:
Artificial intelligence — Respect the dignity of individual people Connect with other people sincerely, openly, and inclusively Care for the wellbeing of everyone Protect social values, justice, and the public interest Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the Asilomar Conference, the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others; however, these principles are not without criticism, especially regarding the people chosen to contribute to these frameworks.
Artificial intelligence — Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers.
Artificial intelligence — The UK AI Safety Institute released in 2024 a testing toolset called 'Inspect' for AI safety evaluations available under an MIT open-source licence which is freely available on GitHub and can be improved with third-party packages.
Artificial intelligence — It can be used to evaluate AI models in a range of areas including core knowledge, ability to reason, and autonomous capabilities.
Artificial intelligence — The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating AI; it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.
Artificial intelligence — The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.
Artificial intelligence — According to AI Index at Stanford, the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.
Artificial intelligence — Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.
Artificial intelligence — Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam.
Artificial intelligence — Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.
Artificial intelligence — The Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.
Artificial intelligence — Henry Kissinger, Eric Schmidt, and Daniel Huttenlocher published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.
Artificial intelligence — In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.
Artificial intelligence — In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, government officials and academics.
Artificial intelligence — On 1 August 2024, the EU Artificial Intelligence Act entered into force, establishing the first comprehensive EU-wide AI regulation.
Artificial intelligence — In 2024, the Council of Europe created the first international legally binding treaty on AI, called the "Framework Convention on Artificial Intelligence and Human Rights, Democracy and the Rule of Law".
Artificial intelligence — It was adopted by the European Union, the United States, the United Kingdom, and other signatories.
Artificial intelligence — In a 2022 Ipsos survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".
Artificial intelligence — A 2023 Reuters/Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.
Artificial intelligence — In a 2023 Fox News poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important".
Artificial intelligence — In November 2023, the first global AI Safety Summit was held in Bletchley Park in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.
Artificial intelligence — 28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence.
Artificial intelligence — In May 2024 at the AI Seoul Summit, 16 global AI tech companies agreed to safety commitments on the development of AI.
Artificial intelligence — The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity.
Artificial intelligence — The study of logic led directly to Alan Turing's theory of computation, which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.
Artificial intelligence — This, along with concurrent discoveries in cybernetics, information theory and neurobiology, led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".
Artificial intelligence — They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, such as McCulloch and Pitts design for "artificial neurons" in 1943, and Turing's influential 1950 paper 'Computing Machinery and Intelligence', which introduced the Turing test and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible.
Artificial intelligence — The field of AI research was founded at a workshop at Dartmouth College in 1956.
Artificial intelligence — They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing": computers were learning checkers strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving logical theorems and speaking English.
Artificial intelligence — Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s.
Artificial intelligence — Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with general intelligence and considered this the goal of their field.
Artificial intelligence — In 1965 Herbert Simon predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".
Artificial intelligence — In 1967 Marvin Minsky agreed, writing that "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".
Artificial intelligence — In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the criticism of Sir James Lighthill and ongoing pressure from the U.S.
Artificial intelligence — Minsky and Papert's book Perceptrons was understood as proving that artificial neural networks would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.
Artificial intelligence — The "AI winter", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed.
Artificial intelligence — In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of expert systems, a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts.
Artificial intelligence — At the same time, Japan's fifth generation computer project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for academic research.
Artificial intelligence — However, beginning with the collapse of the Lisp Machine market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began.
Artificial intelligence — Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects that used high-level symbols to represent mental objects like plans, goals, beliefs, and known facts.
Artificial intelligence — In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially perception, robotics, learning and pattern recognition, and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.
Artificial intelligence — Rodney Brooks rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.
Artificial intelligence — Judea Pearl, Lotfi Zadeh, and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.
Artificial intelligence — But the most important development was the revival of "connectionism", including neural network research, by Geoffrey Hinton and others.
Artificial intelligence — In 1990, Yann LeCun successfully showed that convolutional neural networks can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks.
Artificial intelligence — AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems.
Artificial intelligence — This "narrow" and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as statistics, economics and mathematics).
Artificial intelligence — By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence" (a tendency known as the AI effect).
Artificial intelligence — However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines.
Artificial intelligence — Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of artificial general intelligence (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s.
Artificial intelligence — Deep learning began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field.
Artificial intelligence — Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements (faster computers, graphics processing units, cloud computing) and access to large amounts of data (including curated datasets, such as ImageNet).
Artificial intelligence — Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.
Artificial intelligence — The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019.
Artificial intelligence — In 2016, issues of fairness and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues.
Artificial intelligence — In the late 2010s and early 2020s, AGI companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest.
Artificial intelligence — GPT-3 is a large language model that was released in 2020 by OpenAI and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.
Artificial intelligence — ChatGPT, launched on November 30, 2022, became the fastest-growing consumer software application in history, gaining over 100 million users in two months.
Artificial intelligence — It marked what is widely regarded as AI's breakout year, bringing it into the public consciousness.
Artificial intelligence — These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive AI boom, where large companies began investing billions of dollars in AI research.
Artificial intelligence — According to AI Impacts, about US$50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S.
Artificial intelligence — According to PitchBook research, 22% of newly funded startups in 2024 claimed to be AI companies.
Artificial intelligence — Philosophical debates have historically sought to determine the nature of intelligence and how to make intelligent machines.
Artificial intelligence — Another major focus has been whether machines can be conscious, and the associated ethical implications.
Artificial intelligence — Many other topics in philosophy are relevant to AI, such as epistemology and free will.
Artificial intelligence — Rapid advancements have intensified public discussions on the philosophy and ethics of AI.
Artificial intelligence — Alan Turing wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?" He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".
Artificial intelligence — He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.
Artificial intelligence — Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind".
Artificial intelligence — Turing notes that we can not determine these things about other people but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks."
Artificial intelligence — Russell and Norvig agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.
Artificial intelligence — However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "Aeronautical engineering texts", they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like pigeons that they can fool other pigeons.'" AI founder John McCarthy agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence".
Artificial intelligence — McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world".
Artificial intelligence — Another AI founder, Marvin Minsky, similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".
Artificial intelligence — The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.
Artificial intelligence — These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
Artificial intelligence — Another definition has been adopted by Google, a major practitioner in the field of AI.
Artificial intelligence — This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
Artificial intelligence — As a result of the many circulating definitions scholars have started to critically analyze and order the AI discourse itself including discussing the many AI narratives and myths to be found within societal, political and academic discourses.
Artificial intelligence — Similarly, in practice, some authors have suggested that the term 'AI' is often used too broadly and vaguely.
Artificial intelligence — This raises the question of where the line should be drawn between AI and classical algorithms, with many companies during the early 2020s AI boom using the term as a marketing buzzword, often even if they did "not actually use AI in a material way".
Artificial intelligence — There has been debate over whether large language models exhibit genuine intelligence or merely simulate it by imitating human text.
Artificial intelligence — === Evaluating approaches to AI === No established unifying theory or paradigm has guided AI research for most of its history.
Artificial intelligence — The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks").
Artificial intelligence — Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
Artificial intelligence — ==== Symbolic AI and its limits ==== Symbolic AI (or "GOFAI") simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics.
Artificial intelligence — In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the physical symbol systems hypothesis: "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.
Artificial intelligence — Moravec's paradox is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.
Artificial intelligence — Philosopher Hubert Dreyfus had argued since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.
Artificial intelligence — Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him.
Artificial intelligence — The issue is not resolved: sub-symbolic reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as algorithmic bias.
Artificial intelligence — Critics such as Noam Chomsky argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence, in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from explainable AI: it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision.
Artificial intelligence — The emerging field of neuro-symbolic artificial intelligence attempts to bridge the two approaches.
Artificial intelligence — "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as logic, optimization, or neural networks). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems.
Artificial intelligence — Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work.
Artificial intelligence — This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s, but eventually was seen as irrelevant.
Artificial intelligence — Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is intractable for many important problems.
Artificial intelligence — Soft computing is a set of techniques, including genetic algorithms, fuzzy logic and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation.
Artificial intelligence — Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
Artificial intelligence — AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and superintelligence directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.
Artificial intelligence — General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions.
Artificial intelligence — There is no settled consensus in philosophy of mind on whether a machine can have a mind, consciousness and mental states in the same sense that human beings do.
Artificial intelligence — This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior.
Artificial intelligence — Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.
Artificial intelligence — Russell and Norvig add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on." However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind.
Artificial intelligence — It is also typically the central question at issue in artificial intelligence in fiction.
Artificial intelligence — David Chalmers identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.
Artificial intelligence — The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior.
Artificial intelligence — The hard problem is explaining how this feels or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion).
Artificial intelligence — While human information processing is easy to explain, human subjective experience is difficult to explain.
Artificial intelligence — For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to know what red looks like.
Artificial intelligence — Computationalism is the position in the philosophy of mind that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing.
Artificial intelligence — Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the mind–body problem.
Artificial intelligence — This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers Jerry Fodor and Hilary Putnam.
Artificial intelligence — Philosopher John Searle characterized this position as "strong AI": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds." Searle challenges this claim with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that even a computer capable of perfectly simulating human behavior would not have a mind.
Artificial intelligence — ==== AI welfare and rights ==== It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced AI is sentient (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.
Artificial intelligence — But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.
Artificial intelligence — Sapience (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or self-awareness) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.
Artificial intelligence — Robot rights are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society.
Artificial intelligence — In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems.
Artificial intelligence — Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.
Artificial intelligence — Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of human rights, and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios.
Artificial intelligence — They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part in society on their own.
Artificial intelligence — Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny.
Artificial intelligence — They warn that this may be a moral blind spot analogous to slavery or factory farming, which could lead to large-scale suffering if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited.
Artificial intelligence — === Superintelligence and the singularity === A superintelligence is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind.
Artificial intelligence — If research into artificial general intelligence produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to reprogram and improve itself.
Artificial intelligence — The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what I.
Artificial intelligence — Good called an "intelligence explosion" and Vernor Vinge called a "singularity".
Artificial intelligence — However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an S-shaped curve, slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do.
Artificial intelligence — Robot designer Hans Moravec, cyberneticist Kevin Warwick and inventor Ray Kurzweil have predicted that humans and machines may merge in the future into cyborgs that are more capable and powerful than either.
Artificial intelligence — This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in the writings of Aldous Huxley and Robert Ettinger.
Artificial intelligence — Edward Fredkin argues that "artificial intelligence is the next step in evolution", an idea first proposed by Samuel Butler's "Darwin among the Machines" as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by George Dyson in his 1998 book Darwin Among the Machines: The Evolution of Global Intelligence.
Artificial intelligence — Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity, and have been a persistent theme in science fiction.
Artificial intelligence — A common trope in these works began with Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters.
Artificial intelligence — Clarke's and Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey (both 1968), with HAL 9000, the murderous computer in charge of the Discovery One spaceship, as well as The Terminator (1984) and The Matrix (1999).
Artificial intelligence — In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951) and Bishop from Aliens (1986) are less prominent in popular culture.
Artificial intelligence — Isaac Asimov introduced the Three Laws of Robotics in many stories, most notably with the "Multivac" super-intelligent computer.
Artificial intelligence — Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics; while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity.
Artificial intelligence — Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have the ability to feel, and thus to suffer.
Artificial intelligence — Artificial Intelligence and Ex Machina, as well as the novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, by Philip K.
Artificial intelligence — Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence.
Artificial intelligence — == See also == Artificial consciousness – Field in cognitive science Artificial intelligence and elections – Use and impact of AI on political elections Artificial intelligence content detection – Software to detect AI-generated content Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) Behavior selection algorithm – Algorithm that selects actions for intelligent agents Business process automation – Automation of business processes Case-based reasoning – Process of solving new problems based on the solutions of similar past problems Computational intelligence – Ability of a computer to learn a specific task from data or experimental observation Digital immortality – Hypothetical concept of storing a personality in digital form Emergent algorithm – Algorithm exhibiting emergent behavior Female gendering of AI technologies – Gender biases in digital technologyPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Glossary of artificial intelligence – List of definitions of terms and concepts commonly used in the study of artificial intelligence Intelligence amplification – Use of information technology to augment human intelligence Intelligent agent – Software agent which acts autonomously Intelligent automation – Software process that combines robotic process automation and artificial intelligence List of artificial intelligence journals List of artificial intelligence projects Mind uploading – Hypothetical process of digitally emulating a brain Organoid intelligence – Use of brain cells and brain organoids for intelligent computing Robotic process automation – Form of business process automation technology The Last Day – 1967 Welsh science fiction novel Wetware computer – Computer composed of organic material DARWIN EU - A European Union initiative coordinated by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to generate and utilize real-world evidence (RWE) to support the evaluation and supervision of medicines across the EU.
Artificial intelligence — Artificial intelligence in Wikimedia projects - Use of artificial intelligence to develop Wikipedia and other Wikimedia projects AI-generated content on Wikipedia - Use of artificial intelligence to generate articles or text on Wikipedia
Artificial intelligence — === AI textbooks === The two most widely used textbooks in 2023 (see the Open Syllabus):
Artificial intelligence — Introduction to Artificial Intelligence: from data analysis to generative AI (1st ed.).
Machine learning — Machine learning (ML) is a field of study in artificial intelligence concerned with the development and study of statistical algorithms that can learn from data and generalise to unseen data, and thus perform tasks without explicit instructions.
Machine learning — Within a subdiscipline in machine learning, advances in the field of deep learning have allowed neural networks, a class of statistical algorithms, to surpass many previous machine learning approaches in performance.
Machine learning — ML finds application in many fields, including natural language processing, computer vision, speech recognition, email filtering, agriculture, and medicine.
Machine learning — Statistics and mathematical optimisation (mathematical programming) methods comprise the foundations of machine learning.
Machine learning — Data mining is a related field of study, focusing on exploratory data analysis (EDA) via unsupervised learning.
Machine learning — From a theoretical viewpoint, probably approximately correct learning provides a framework for describing machine learning.
Machine learning — The term machine learning was coined in 1959 by Arthur Samuel, an IBM employee and pioneer in the field of computer gaming and artificial intelligence.
Machine learning — The earliest machine learning program was introduced in the 1950s when Arthur Samuel invented a computer program that calculated the winning chance in checkers for each side, but the history of machine learning roots back to decades of human desire and effort to study human cognitive processes.
Machine learning — In 1949, Canadian psychologist Donald Hebb published the book The Organization of Behavior, in which he introduced a theoretical neural structure formed by certain interactions among nerve cells.
Machine learning — Hebb's model of neurons interacting with one another set a groundwork for how AIs and machine learning algorithms work under nodes, or artificial neurons used by computers to communicate data.
Machine learning — Other researchers who have studied human cognitive systems contributed to the modern machine learning technologies as well, including logician Walter Pitts and Warren McCulloch, who proposed the early mathematical models of neural networks to come up with algorithms that mirror human thought processes.
Machine learning — By the early 1960s, an experimental "learning machine" with punched tape memory, called Cybertron, had been developed by Raytheon Company to analyse sonar signals, electrocardiograms, and speech patterns using rudimentary reinforcement learning.
Machine learning — It was repetitively "trained" by a human operator/teacher to recognise patterns and equipped with a "goof" button to cause it to reevaluate incorrect decisions.
Machine learning — A representative book on research into machine learning during the 1960s was Nilsson's book on Learning Machines, dealing mostly with machine learning for pattern classification.
Machine learning — Interest related to pattern recognition continued into the 1970s, as described by Duda and Hart in 1973.
Machine learning — In 1981 a report was given on using teaching strategies so that an artificial neural network learns to recognise 40 characters (26 letters, 10 digits, and 4 special symbols) from a computer terminal.
Machine learning — Mitchell provided a widely quoted, more formal definition of the algorithms studied in the machine learning field: "A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P if its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience E." This definition of the tasks in which machine learning is concerned offers a fundamentally operational definition rather than defining the field in cognitive terms.
Machine learning — This follows Alan Turing's proposal in his paper "Computing Machinery and Intelligence", in which the question "Can machines think?" is replaced with the question "Can machines do what we (as thinking entities) can do?".
Machine learning — Modern day Machine Learning algorithms are broken into 3 algorithms types: Supervised Learning Algorithms, Unsupervised Learning Algorithms, and Reinforcement Learning Algorithms.
Machine learning — Current Supervised Learning Algorithms have objectives of classification and regression.
Machine learning — Current Unsupervised Learning Algorithms have objectives of clustering, dimensionality reduction, and association rule.
Machine learning — Current Reinforcement Learning Algorithms focus on decisions that must be made with respect to some previous, unkown time and are broken down to either be studies of model based methods, and model free methods.
Machine learning — As a scientific endeavour, machine learning grew out of the quest for artificial intelligence (AI).
Machine learning — In the early days of AI as an academic discipline, some researchers were interested in having machines learn from data.
Machine learning — They attempted to approach the problem with various symbolic methods, as well as what were then termed "neural networks"; these were mostly perceptrons and other models that were later found to be reinventions of the generalised linear models of statistics.
Machine learning — Probabilistic reasoning was also employed, especially in automated medical diagnosis.
Machine learning — However, an increasing emphasis on the logical, knowledge-based approach caused a rift between AI and machine learning.
Machine learning — Probabilistic systems were plagued by theoretical and practical problems of data acquisition and representation.
Machine learning — By 1980, expert systems had come to dominate AI, and statistics was out of favour.
Machine learning — Work on symbolic/knowledge-based learning did continue within AI, leading to inductive logic programming(ILP), but the more statistical line of research was now outside the field of AI proper, in pattern recognition and information retrieval.
Machine learning — Neural networks research had been abandoned by AI and computer science around the same time.
Machine learning — This line, too, was continued outside the AI/CS field, as "connectionism", by researchers from other disciplines including John Hopfield, David Rumelhart, and Geoffrey Hinton.
Machine learning — Their main success came in the mid-1980s with the reinvention of backpropagation.
Machine learning — Machine learning (ML), reorganised and recognised as its own field, started to flourish in the 1990s.
Machine learning — The field changed its goal from achieving artificial intelligence to tackling solvable problems of a practical nature.
Machine learning — It shifted focus away from the symbolic approaches it had inherited from AI, and toward methods and models borrowed from statistics, fuzzy logic, and probability theory.
Machine learning — === Data mining === Machine learning and data mining often employ the same methods and overlap significantly, but while machine learning focuses on prediction, based on known properties learned from the training data, data mining focuses on the discovery of (previously) unknown properties in the data (this is the analysis step of knowledge discovery in databases).
Machine learning — Data mining uses many machine learning methods, but with different goals; on the other hand, machine learning also employs data mining methods as "unsupervised learning" or as a preprocessing step to improve learner accuracy.
Machine learning — Much of the confusion between these two research communities (which do often have separate conferences and separate journals, ECML PKDD being a major exception) comes from the basic assumptions they work with: in machine learning, performance is usually evaluated with respect to the ability to reproduce known knowledge, while in knowledge discovery and data mining (KDD) the key task is the discovery of previously unknown knowledge.
Machine learning — Evaluated with respect to known knowledge, an uninformed (unsupervised) method will easily be outperformed by other supervised methods, while in a typical KDD task, supervised methods cannot be used due to the unavailability of training data.
Machine learning — Machine learning also has intimate ties to optimisation: Many learning problems are formulated as minimisation of some loss function on a training set of examples.
Machine learning — Loss functions express the discrepancy between the predictions of the model being trained and the actual problem instances (for example, in classification, one wants to assign a label to instances, and models are trained to correctly predict the preassigned labels of a set of examples).
Machine learning — === Generalization === Characterizing the generalisation of various learning algorithms is an active topic of current research, especially for deep learning algorithms.
Machine learning — === Statistics === Machine learning and statistics are closely related fields in terms of methods, but distinct in their principal goal: statistics draws population inferences from a sample, while machine learning finds generalisable predictive patterns.
Machine learning — Conventional statistical analyses require the a priori selection of a model most suitable for the study data set.
Machine learning — In addition, only significant or theoretically relevant variables based on previous experience are included for analysis.
Machine learning — In contrast, machine learning is not built on a pre-structured model; rather, the data shape the model by detecting underlying patterns.
Machine learning — The more variables (input) used to train the model, the more accurate the ultimate model will be.
Machine learning — Leo Breiman distinguished two statistical modelling paradigms: data model and algorithmic model, wherein "algorithmic model" means more or less the machine learning algorithms like Random Forest.
Machine learning — Some statisticians have adopted methods from machine learning, leading to a combined field that they call statistical learning.
Machine learning — === Statistical physics === Analytical and computational techniques derived from deep-rooted physics of disordered systems can be extended to large-scale problems, including machine learning, e.g., to analyse the weight space of deep neural networks.
Machine learning — Statistical physics is thus finding applications in the area of medical diagnostics.
Machine learning — Generalisation in this context is the ability of a learning machine to perform accurately on new, unseen examples/tasks after having experienced a learning data set.
Machine learning — The training examples come from some generally unknown probability distribution (considered representative of the space of occurrences) and the learner has to build a general model about this space that enables it to produce sufficiently accurate predictions in new cases.
Machine learning — The computational analysis of machine learning algorithms and their performance is a branch of theoretical computer science known as computational learning theory via the probably approximately correct learning model.
Machine learning — Because training sets are finite and the future is uncertain, learning theory usually does not yield guarantees of the performance of algorithms.
Machine learning — For the best performance in the context of generalisation, the complexity of the hypothesis should match the complexity of the function underlying the data.
Machine learning — If the hypothesis is less complex than the function, then the model has under fitted the data.
Machine learning — If the complexity of the model is increased in response, then the training error decreases.
Machine learning — But if the hypothesis is too complex, then the model is subject to overfitting and generalisation will be poorer.
Machine learning — In addition to performance bounds, learning theorists study the time complexity and feasibility of learning.
Machine learning — In computational learning theory, a computation is considered feasible if it can be done in polynomial time.
Machine learning — There are two kinds of time complexity results: Positive results show that a certain class of functions can be learned in polynomial time.
Machine learning — Negative results show that certain classes cannot be learned in polynomial time.
Machine learning — Machine learning approaches are traditionally divided into three broad categories, which correspond to learning paradigms, depending on the nature of the "signal" or "feedback" available to the learning system:
Machine learning — Supervised learning: The computer is presented with example inputs and their desired outputs, given by a "teacher", and the goal is to learn a general rule that maps inputs to outputs.
Machine learning — Unsupervised learning: No labels are given to the learning algorithm, leaving it on its own to find structure in its input.
Machine learning — Unsupervised learning can be a goal in itself (discovering hidden patterns in data) or a means towards an end (feature learning).
Machine learning — Reinforcement learning: A computer program interacts with a dynamic environment in which it must perform a certain goal (such as driving a vehicle or playing a game against an opponent).
Machine learning — As it navigates its problem space, the program is provided feedback that's analogous to rewards, which it tries to maximise.
Machine learning — Although each algorithm has advantages and limitations, no single algorithm works for all problems.
Machine learning — Supervised learning algorithms build a mathematical model of a set of data that contains both the inputs and the desired outputs.
Machine learning — Each training example has one or more inputs and the desired output, also known as a supervisory signal.
Machine learning — In the mathematical model, each training example is represented by an array or vector, sometimes called a feature vector, and the training data is represented by a matrix.
Machine learning — Through iterative optimisation of an objective function, supervised learning algorithms learn a function that can be used to predict the output associated with new inputs.
Machine learning — An optimal function allows the algorithm to correctly determine the output for inputs that were not a part of the training data.
Machine learning — An algorithm that improves the accuracy of its outputs or predictions over time is said to have learned to perform that task.
Machine learning — Types of supervised-learning algorithms include active learning, classification and regression.
Machine learning — Classification algorithms are used when the outputs are restricted to a limited set of values, while regression algorithms are used when the outputs can take any numerical value within a range.
Machine learning — For example, in a classification algorithm that filters emails, the input is an incoming email, and the output is the folder in which to file the email.
Machine learning — In contrast, regression is used for tasks such as predicting a person's height based on factors like age and genetics or forecasting future temperatures based on historical data.
Machine learning — Similarity learning is an area of supervised machine learning closely related to regression and classification, but the goal is to learn from examples using a similarity function that measures how similar or related two objects are.
Machine learning — It has applications in ranking, recommendation systems, visual identity tracking, face verification, and speaker verification.
Machine learning — Unsupervised learning algorithms find structures in data that has not been labelled, classified or categorised.
Machine learning — Instead of responding to feedback, unsupervised learning algorithms identify commonalities in the data and react based on the presence or absence of such commonalities in each new piece of data.
Machine learning — Central applications of unsupervised machine learning include clustering, dimensionality reduction, and density estimation.
Machine learning — Cluster analysis is the assignment of a set of observations into subsets (called clusters) so that observations within the same cluster are similar according to one or more predesignated criteria, while observations drawn from different clusters are dissimilar.
Machine learning — Different clustering techniques make different assumptions on the structure of the data, often defined by some similarity metric and evaluated, for example, by internal compactness, or the similarity between members of the same cluster, and separation, the difference between clusters.
Machine learning — A special type of unsupervised learning called, self-supervised learning involves training a model by generating the supervisory signal from the data itself.
Machine learning — Semi-supervised learning falls between unsupervised learning (without any labelled training data) and supervised learning (with completely labelled training data).
Machine learning — Some of the training examples are missing training labels, yet many machine-learning researchers have found that unlabelled data, when used in conjunction with a small amount of labelled data, can produce a considerable improvement in learning accuracy.
Machine learning — In weakly supervised learning, the training labels are noisy, limited, or imprecise; however, these labels are often cheaper to obtain, resulting in larger effective training sets.
Machine learning — Reinforcement learning is an area of machine learning concerned with how software agents ought to take actions in an environment so as to maximise some notion of cumulative reward.
Machine learning — Due to its generality, the field is studied in many other disciplines, such as game theory, control theory, operations research, information theory, simulation-based optimisation, multi-agent systems, swarm intelligence, statistics and genetic algorithms.
Machine learning — In reinforcement learning, the environment is typically represented as a Markov decision process (MDP).
Machine learning — Reinforcement learning algorithms do not assume knowledge of an exact mathematical model of the MDP and are used when exact models are infeasible.
Machine learning — Reinforcement learning algorithms are used in autonomous vehicles or in learning to play a game against a human opponent.
Machine learning — === Dimensionality reduction === Dimensionality reduction is a process of reducing the number of random variables under consideration by obtaining a set of principal variables.
Machine learning — In other words, it is a process of reducing the dimension of the feature set, also called the "number of features".
Machine learning — Most of the dimensionality reduction techniques can be considered as either feature elimination or extraction.
Machine learning — One of the popular methods of dimensionality reduction is principal component analysis (PCA).
Machine learning — PCA involves changing higher-dimensional data (e.g., 3D) to a smaller space (e.g., 2D).
Machine learning — The manifold hypothesis proposes that high-dimensional data sets lie along low-dimensional manifolds, and many dimensionality reduction techniques make this assumption, leading to the area of manifold learning and manifold regularisation.
Machine learning — === Other types === Other approaches have been developed which do not fit neatly into this three-fold categorisation, and sometimes more than one is used by the same machine learning system.
Machine learning — ==== Self-learning ==== Self-learning, as a machine learning paradigm was introduced in 1982 along with a neural network capable of self-learning, named crossbar adaptive array (CAA).
Machine learning — It gives a solution to the problem learning without any external reward, by introducing emotion as an internal reward.
Machine learning — The CAA self-learning algorithm computes, in a crossbar fashion, both decisions about actions and emotions (feelings) about consequence situations.
Machine learning — The self-learning algorithm updates a memory matrix W =||w(a,s)|| such that in each iteration executes the following machine learning routine:
Machine learning — in situation s perform action a receive a consequence situation s' compute emotion of being in the consequence situation v(s') update crossbar memory w'(a,s) = w(a,s) + v(s') It is a system with only one input, situation, and only one output, action (or behaviour) a.
Machine learning — There is neither a separate reinforcement input nor an advice input from the environment.
Machine learning — The backpropagated value (secondary reinforcement) is the emotion toward the consequence situation.
Machine learning — The CAA exists in two environments, one is the behavioural environment where it behaves, and the other is the genetic environment, wherefrom it initially and only once receives initial emotions about situations to be encountered in the behavioural environment.
Machine learning — After receiving the genome (species) vector from the genetic environment, the CAA learns a goal-seeking behaviour, in an environment that contains both desirable and undesirable situations.
Machine learning — Several learning algorithms aim at discovering better representations of the inputs provided during training.
Machine learning — Feature learning algorithms, also called representation learning algorithms, often attempt to preserve the information in their input but also transform it in a way that makes it useful, often as a pre-processing step before performing classification or predictions.
Machine learning — This technique allows reconstruction of the inputs coming from the unknown data-generating distribution, while not being necessarily faithful to configurations that are implausible under that distribution.
Machine learning — This replaces manual feature engineering, and allows a machine to both learn the features and use them to perform a specific task.
Machine learning — Examples include artificial neural networks, multilayer perceptrons, and supervised dictionary learning.
Machine learning — In unsupervised feature learning, features are learned with unlabelled input data.
Machine learning — Examples include dictionary learning, independent component analysis, autoencoders, matrix factorisation and various forms of clustering.
Machine learning — Manifold learning algorithms attempt to do so under the constraint that the learned representation is low-dimensional.
Machine learning — Sparse coding algorithms attempt to do so under the constraint that the learned representation is sparse, meaning that the mathematical model has many zeros.
Machine learning — Multilinear subspace learning algorithms aim to learn low-dimensional representations directly from tensor representations for multidimensional data, without reshaping them into higher-dimensional vectors.
Machine learning — Deep learning algorithms discover multiple levels of representation, or a hierarchy of features, with higher-level, more abstract features defined in terms of (or generating) lower-level features.
Machine learning — It has been argued that an intelligent machine is one that learns a representation that disentangles the underlying factors of variation that explain the observed data.
Machine learning — Feature learning is motivated by the fact that machine learning tasks such as classification often require input that is mathematically and computationally convenient to process.
Machine learning — However, real-world data such as images, video, and sensory data has not yielded attempts to algorithmically define specific features.
Machine learning — An alternative is to discover such features or representations through examination, without relying on explicit algorithms.
Machine learning — Sparse dictionary learning is a feature learning method where a training example is represented as a linear combination of basis functions and assumed to be a sparse matrix.
Machine learning — A popular heuristic method for sparse dictionary learning is the k-SVD algorithm.
Machine learning — In classification, the problem is to determine the class to which a previously unseen training example belongs.
Machine learning — For a dictionary where each class has already been built, a new training example is associated with the class that is best sparsely represented by the corresponding dictionary.
Machine learning — The key idea is that a clean image patch can be sparsely represented by an image dictionary, but the noise cannot.
Machine learning — In data mining, anomaly detection, also known as outlier detection, is the identification of rare items, events or observations which raise suspicions by differing significantly from the majority of the data.
Machine learning — Typically, the anomalous items represent an issue such as bank fraud, a structural defect, medical problems or errors in a text.
Machine learning — Anomalies are referred to as outliers, novelties, noise, deviations and exceptions.
Machine learning — In particular, in the context of abuse and network intrusion detection, the interesting objects are often not rare objects, but unexpected bursts of inactivity.
Machine learning — This pattern does not adhere to the common statistical definition of an outlier as a rare object.
Machine learning — Many outlier detection methods (in particular, unsupervised algorithms) will fail on such data unless aggregated appropriately.
Machine learning — Instead, a cluster analysis algorithm may be able to detect the micro-clusters formed by these patterns.
Machine learning — Unsupervised anomaly detection techniques detect anomalies in an unlabelled test data set under the assumption that the majority of the instances in the data set are normal, by looking for instances that seem to fit the least to the remainder of the data set.
Machine learning — Supervised anomaly detection techniques require a data set that has been labelled as "normal" and "abnormal" and involves training a classifier (the key difference from many other statistical classification problems is the inherently unbalanced nature of outlier detection).
Machine learning — Semi-supervised anomaly detection techniques construct a model representing normal behaviour from a given normal training data set and then test the likelihood of a test instance to be generated by the model.
Machine learning — ==== Robot learning ==== Robot learning is inspired by a multitude of machine learning methods, starting from supervised learning, reinforcement learning, and finally meta-learning (e.g.
Machine learning — Association rule learning is a rule-based machine learning method for discovering relationships between variables in large databases.
Machine learning — It is intended to identify strong rules discovered in databases using some measure of "interestingness".
Machine learning — Rule-based machine learning is a general term for any machine learning method that identifies, learns, or evolves "rules" to store, manipulate or apply knowledge.
Machine learning — The defining characteristic of a rule-based machine learning algorithm is the identification and utilisation of a set of relational rules that collectively represent the knowledge captured by the system.
Machine learning — This is in contrast to other machine learning algorithms that commonly identify a singular model that can be universally applied to any instance in order to make a prediction.
Machine learning — Rule-based machine learning approaches include learning classifier systems, association rule learning, and artificial immune systems.
Machine learning — Based on the concept of strong rules, Rakesh Agrawal, Tomasz Imieliński and Arun Swami introduced association rules for discovering regularities between products in large-scale transaction data recorded by point-of-sale (POS) systems in supermarkets.
Machine learning — For example, the rule { o n i o n s , p o t a t o e s } ⇒ { b u r g e r } {\displaystyle \{\mathrm {onions,potatoes} \}\Rightarrow \{\mathrm {burger} \}} found in the sales data of a supermarket would indicate that if a customer buys onions and potatoes together, they are likely to also buy hamburger meat.
Machine learning — Such information can be used as the basis for decisions about marketing activities such as promotional pricing or product placements.
Machine learning — In addition to market basket analysis, association rules are employed today in application areas including Web usage mining, intrusion detection, continuous production, and bioinformatics.
Machine learning — In contrast with sequence mining, association rule learning typically does not consider the order of items either within a transaction or across transactions.
Machine learning — Learning classifier systems (LCS) are a family of rule-based machine learning algorithms that combine a discovery component, typically a genetic algorithm, with a learning component, performing either supervised learning, reinforcement learning, or unsupervised learning.
Machine learning — They seek to identify a set of context-dependent rules that collectively store and apply knowledge in a piecewise manner in order to make predictions.
Machine learning — Inductive logic programming (ILP) is an approach to rule learning using logic programming as a uniform representation for input examples, background knowledge, and hypotheses.
Machine learning — Given an encoding of the known background knowledge and a set of examples represented as a logical database of facts, an ILP system will derive a hypothesized logic program that entails all positive and no negative examples.
Machine learning — Inductive programming is a related field that considers any kind of programming language for representing hypotheses (and not only logic programming), such as functional programs.
Machine learning — Inductive logic programming is particularly useful in bioinformatics and natural language processing.
Machine learning — Gordon Plotkin and Ehud Shapiro laid the initial theoretical foundation for inductive machine learning in a logical setting.
Machine learning — Shapiro built their first implementation (Model Inference System) in 1981: a Prolog program that inductively inferred logic programs from positive and negative examples.
Machine learning — The term inductive here refers to philosophical induction, suggesting a theory to explain observed facts, rather than mathematical induction, proving a property for all members of a well-ordered set.
Machine learning — == Models == A machine learning model is a type of mathematical model that, once "trained" on a given dataset, can be used to make predictions or classifications on new data.
Machine learning — During training, a learning algorithm iteratively adjusts the model's internal parameters to minimise errors in its predictions.
Machine learning — By extension, the term "model" can refer to several levels of specificity, from a general class of models and their associated learning algorithms to a fully trained model with all its internal parameters tuned.
Machine learning — Various types of models have been used and researched for machine learning systems, picking the best model for a task is called model selection.
Machine learning — Artificial neural networks (ANNs), or connectionist systems, are computing systems vaguely inspired by the biological neural networks that constitute animal brains.
Machine learning — Such systems "learn" to perform tasks by considering examples, generally without being programmed with any task-specific rules.
Machine learning — An ANN is a model based on a collection of connected units or nodes called "artificial neurons", which loosely model the neurons in a biological brain.
Machine learning — Each connection, like the synapses in a biological brain, can transmit information, a "signal", from one artificial neuron to another.
Machine learning — An artificial neuron that receives a signal can process it and then signal additional artificial neurons connected to it.
Machine learning — In common ANN implementations, the signal at a connection between artificial neurons is a real number, and the output of each artificial neuron is computed by some non-linear function of the sum of its inputs.
Machine learning — Artificial neurons and edges typically have a weight that adjusts as learning proceeds.
Machine learning — Artificial neurons may have a threshold such that the signal is only sent if the aggregate signal crosses that threshold.
Machine learning — Different layers may perform different kinds of transformations on their inputs.
Machine learning — Signals travel from the first layer (the input layer) to the last layer (the output layer), possibly after traversing the layers multiple times.
Machine learning — The original goal of the ANN approach was to solve problems in the same way that a human brain would.
Machine learning — However, over time, attention moved to performing specific tasks, leading to deviations from biology.
Machine learning — Artificial neural networks have been used on a variety of tasks, including computer vision, speech recognition, machine translation, social network filtering, playing board and video games and medical diagnosis.
Machine learning — Deep learning consists of multiple hidden layers in an artificial neural network.
Machine learning — This approach tries to model the way the human brain processes light and sound into vision and hearing.
Machine learning — Some successful applications of deep learning are computer vision and speech recognition.
Machine learning — Decision tree learning uses a decision tree as a predictive model to go from observations about an item (represented in the branches) to conclusions about the item's target value (represented in the leaves).
Machine learning — It is one of the predictive modelling approaches used in statistics, data mining, and machine learning.
Machine learning — Tree models where the target variable can take a discrete set of values are called classification trees; in these tree structures, leaves represent class labels, and branches represent conjunctions of features that lead to those class labels.
Machine learning — Decision trees where the target variable can take continuous values (typically real numbers) are called regression trees.
Machine learning — In decision analysis, a decision tree can be used to visually and explicitly represent decisions and decision making.
Machine learning — In data mining, a decision tree describes data, but the resulting classification tree can be an input for decision-making.
Machine learning — === Random forest regression === Random forest regression (RFR) falls under umbrella of decision tree-based models.
Machine learning — RFR is an ensemble learning method that builds multiple decision trees and averages their predictions to improve accuracy and to avoid overfitting.
Machine learning — To build decision trees, RFR uses bootstrapped sampling, for instance each decision tree is trained on random data of from training set.
Machine learning — This random selection of RFR for training enables model to reduce bias predictions and achieve accuracy.
Machine learning — RFR generates independent decision trees, and it can work on single output data as well multiple regressor task.
Machine learning — Support-vector machines (SVMs), also known as support-vector networks, are a set of related supervised learning methods used for classification and regression.
Machine learning — Given a set of training examples, each marked as belonging to one of two categories, an SVM training algorithm builds a model that predicts whether a new example falls into one category.
Machine learning — An SVM training algorithm is a non-probabilistic, binary, linear classifier, although methods such as Platt scaling exist to use SVM in a probabilistic classification setting.
Machine learning — In addition to performing linear classification, SVMs can efficiently perform a non-linear classification using what is called the kernel trick, implicitly mapping their inputs into high-dimensional feature spaces.
Machine learning — Regression analysis encompasses a large variety of statistical methods to estimate the relationship between input variables and their associated features.
Machine learning — Its most common form is linear regression, where a single line is drawn to best fit the given data according to a mathematical criterion such as ordinary least squares.
Machine learning — The latter is often extended by regularisation methods to mitigate overfitting and bias, as in ridge regression.
Machine learning — When dealing with non-linear problems, go-to models include polynomial regression (for example, used for trendline fitting in Microsoft Excel), logistic regression (often used in statistical classification) or even kernel regression, which introduces non-linearity by taking advantage of the kernel trick to implicitly map input variables to higher-dimensional space.
Machine learning — Multivariate linear regression extends the concept of linear regression to handle multiple dependent variables simultaneously.
Machine learning — This approach estimates the relationships between a set of input variables and several output variables by fitting a multidimensional linear model.
Machine learning — It is particularly useful in scenarios where outputs are interdependent or share underlying patterns, such as predicting multiple economic indicators or reconstructing images, which are inherently multi-dimensional.
Machine learning — A Bayesian network, belief network, or directed acyclic graphical model is a probabilistic graphical model that represents a set of random variables and their conditional independence with a directed acyclic graph (DAG).
Machine learning — For example, a Bayesian network could represent the probabilistic relationships between diseases and symptoms.
Machine learning — Given symptoms, the network can be used to compute the probabilities of the presence of various diseases.
Machine learning — Bayesian networks that model sequences of variables, like speech signals or protein sequences, are called dynamic Bayesian networks.
Machine learning — Generalisations of Bayesian networks that can represent and solve decision problems under uncertainty are called influence diagrams.
Machine learning — A Gaussian process is a stochastic process in which every finite collection of the random variables in the process has a multivariate normal distribution, and it relies on a pre-defined covariance function, or kernel, that models how pairs of points relate to each other depending on their locations.
Machine learning — Given a set of observed points, or input–output examples, the distribution of the (unobserved) output of a new point as function of its input data can be directly computed by looking like the observed points and the covariances between those points and the new, unobserved point.
Machine learning — Gaussian processes are popular surrogate models in Bayesian optimisation used to do hyperparameter optimisation.
Machine learning — A genetic algorithm (GA) is a search algorithm and heuristic technique that mimics the process of natural selection, using methods such as mutation and crossover to generate new genotypes in the hope of finding good solutions to a given problem.
Machine learning — Conversely, machine learning techniques have been used to improve the performance of genetic and evolutionary algorithms.
Machine learning — The theory of belief functions, also referred to as evidence theory or Dempster–Shafer theory, is a general framework for reasoning with uncertainty, with understood connections to other frameworks such as probability, possibility and imprecise probability theories.
Machine learning — These theoretical frameworks can be thought of as a kind of learner and have some analogous properties of how evidence is combined (e.g., Dempster's rule of combination), just like how in a pmf-based Bayesian approach would combine probabilities.
Machine learning — However, there are many caveats to these beliefs functions when compared to Bayesian approaches in order to incorporate ignorance and uncertainty quantification.
Machine learning — These belief function approaches that are implemented within the machine learning domain typically leverage a fusion approach of various ensemble methods to better handle the learner's decision boundary, low samples, and ambiguous class issues that standard machine learning approach tend to have difficulty resolving.
Machine learning — However, the computational complexity of these algorithms are dependent on the number of propositions (classes), and can lead to a much higher computation time when compared to other machine learning approaches.
Machine learning — Rule-based machine learning (RBML) is a branch of machine learning that automatically discovers and learns 'rules' from data.
Machine learning — It provides interpretable models, making it useful for decision-making in fields like healthcare, fraud detection, and cybersecurity.
Machine learning — Key RBML techniques includes learning classifier systems, association rule learning, artificial immune systems, and other similar models.
Machine learning — === Training models === Typically, machine learning models require a high quantity of reliable data to perform accurate predictions.
Machine learning — When training a machine learning model, machine learning engineers need to target and collect a large and representative sample of data.
Machine learning — Data from the training set can be as varied as a corpus of text, a collection of images, sensor data, and data collected from individual users of a service.
Machine learning — Overfitting is something to watch out for when training a machine learning model.
Machine learning — Trained models derived from biased or non-evaluated data can result in skewed or undesired predictions.
Machine learning — Biased models may result in detrimental outcomes, thereby furthering the negative impacts on society or objectives.
Machine learning — Algorithmic bias is a potential result of data not being fully prepared for training.
Machine learning — Machine learning ethics is becoming a field of study and notably, becoming integrated within machine learning engineering teams.
Machine learning — Federated learning is an adapted form of distributed artificial intelligence to training machine learning models that decentralises the training process, allowing for users' privacy to be maintained by not needing to send their data to a centralised server.
Machine learning — This also increases efficiency by decentralising the training process to many devices.
Machine learning — For example, Gboard uses federated machine learning to train search query prediction models on users' mobile phones without having to send individual searches back to Google.
Machine learning — In 2006, the media-services provider Netflix held the first "Netflix Prize" competition to find a program to better predict user preferences and improve the accuracy of its existing Cinematch movie recommendation algorithm by at least 10%.
Machine learning — A joint team made up of researchers from AT&T Labs-Research in collaboration with the teams Big Chaos and Pragmatic Theory built an ensemble model to win the Grand Prize in 2009 for $1 million.
Machine learning — Shortly after the prize was awarded, Netflix realised that viewers' ratings were not the best indicators of their viewing patterns ("everything is a recommendation") and they changed their recommendation engine accordingly.
Machine learning — In 2010, an article in The Wall Street Journal noted the use of machine learning by Rebellion Research to predict the 2008 financial crisis.
Machine learning — In 2012, co-founder of Sun Microsystems, Vinod Khosla, predicted that 80% of medical doctors jobs would be lost in the next two decades to automated machine learning medical diagnostic software.
Machine learning — In 2014, it was reported that a machine learning algorithm had been applied in the field of art history to study fine art paintings and that it may have revealed previously unrecognised influences among artists.
Machine learning — In 2019 Springer Nature published the first research book created using machine learning.
Machine learning — In 2020, machine learning technology was used to help make diagnoses and aid researchers in developing a cure for COVID-19.
Machine learning — Machine learning was recently applied to predict the pro-environmental behaviour of travellers.
Machine learning — Recently, machine learning technology was also applied to optimise smartphone's performance and thermal behaviour based on the user's interaction with the phone.
Machine learning — When applied correctly, machine learning algorithms (MLAs) can utilise a wide range of company characteristics to predict stock returns without overfitting.
Machine learning — By employing effective feature engineering and combining forecasts, MLAs can generate results that far surpass those obtained from basic linear techniques like OLS.
Machine learning — Recent advancements in machine learning have extended into the field of quantum chemistry, where novel algorithms now enable the prediction of solvent effects on chemical reactions, thereby offering new tools for chemists to tailor experimental conditions for optimal outcomes.
Machine learning — Machine Learning is becoming a useful tool to investigate and predict evacuation decision making in large scale and small scale disasters.
Machine learning — Different solutions have been tested to predict if and when householders decide to evacuate during wildfires and hurricanes.
Machine learning — Other applications have been focusing on pre evacuation decisions in building fires.
Machine learning — == Limitations == Although machine learning has been transformative in some fields, machine-learning programs often fail to deliver expected results.
Machine learning — Reasons for this are numerous: lack of (suitable) data, lack of access to the data, data bias, privacy problems, badly chosen tasks and algorithms, wrong tools and people, lack of resources, and evaluation problems.
Machine learning — Black box refers to a situation where the algorithm or the process of producing an output is entirely opaque, meaning that even the coders of the algorithm cannot audit the pattern that the machine extracted out of the data.
Machine learning — The House of Lords Select Committee, which claimed that such an "intelligence system" that could have a "substantial impact on an individual's life" would not be considered acceptable unless it provided "a full and satisfactory explanation for the decisions" it makes.
Machine learning — In 2018, a self-driving car from Uber failed to detect a pedestrian, who was killed after a collision.
Machine learning — Attempts to use machine learning in healthcare with the IBM Watson system failed to deliver even after years of time and billions of dollars invested.
Machine learning — Microsoft's Bing Chat chatbot has been reported to produce hostile and offensive response against its users.
Machine learning — Machine learning has been used as a strategy to update the evidence related to a systematic review and increased reviewer burden related to the growth of biomedical literature.
Machine learning — While it has improved with training sets, it has not yet developed sufficiently to reduce the workload burden without limiting the necessary sensitivity for the findings research themselves.
Machine learning — Explainable AI (XAI), or Interpretable AI, or Explainable Machine Learning (XML), is artificial intelligence (AI) in which humans can understand the decisions or predictions made by the AI.
Machine learning — It contrasts with the "black box" concept in machine learning where even its designers cannot explain why an AI arrived at a specific decision.
Machine learning — By refining the mental models of users of AI-powered systems and dismantling their misconceptions, XAI promises to help users perform more effectively.
Machine learning — Settling on a bad, overly complex theory gerrymandered to fit all the past training data is known as overfitting.
Machine learning — Many systems attempt to reduce overfitting by rewarding a theory in accordance with how well it fits the data but penalising the theory in accordance with how complex the theory is.
Machine learning — === Other limitations and vulnerabilities === Learners can also disappoint by "learning the wrong lesson".
Machine learning — A toy example is that an image classifier trained only on pictures of brown horses and black cats might conclude that all brown patches are likely to be horses.
Machine learning — A real-world example is that, unlike humans, current image classifiers often do not primarily make judgements from the spatial relationship between components of the picture, and they learn relationships between pixels that humans are oblivious to, but that still correlate with images of certain types of real objects.
Machine learning — Modifying these patterns on a legitimate image can result in "adversarial" images that the system misclassifies.
Machine learning — Adversarial vulnerabilities can also result in nonlinear systems, or from non-pattern perturbations.
Machine learning — For some systems, it is possible to change the output by only changing a single adversarially chosen pixel.
Machine learning — Machine learning models are often vulnerable to manipulation or evasion via adversarial machine learning.
Machine learning — Researchers have demonstrated how backdoors can be placed undetectably into classifying (e.g., for categories "spam" and well-visible "not spam" of posts) machine learning models that are often developed or trained by third parties.
Machine learning — Parties can change the classification of any input, including in cases for which a type of data/software transparency is provided, possibly including white-box access.
Machine learning — == Model assessments == Classification of machine learning models can be validated by accuracy estimation techniques like the holdout method, which splits the data in a training and test set (conventionally 2/3 training set and 1/3 test set designation) and evaluates the performance of the training model on the test set.
Machine learning — In comparison, the K-fold-cross-validation method randomly partitions the data into K subsets and then K experiments are performed each respectively considering 1 subset for evaluation and the remaining K-1 subsets for training the model.
Machine learning — In addition to the holdout and cross-validation methods, bootstrap, which samples n instances with replacement from the dataset, can be used to assess model accuracy.
Machine learning — In addition to overall accuracy, investigators frequently report sensitivity and specificity meaning true positive rate (TPR) and true negative rate (TNR) respectively.
Machine learning — Similarly, investigators sometimes report the false positive rate (FPR) as well as the false negative rate (FNR).
Machine learning — However, these rates are ratios that fail to reveal their numerators and denominators.
Machine learning — Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) along with the accompanying Area Under the ROC Curve (AUC) offer additional tools for classification model assessment.
Machine learning — A machine learning system trained specifically on current customers may not be able to predict the needs of new customer groups that are not represented in the training data.
Machine learning — When trained on human-made data, machine learning is likely to pick up the constitutional and unconscious biases already present in society.
Machine learning — Systems that are trained on datasets collected with biases may exhibit these biases upon use (algorithmic bias), thus digitising cultural prejudices.
Machine learning — George's Medical School had been using a computer program trained from data of previous admissions staff and that this program had denied nearly 60 candidates who were found to either be women or have non-European sounding names.
Machine learning — Using job hiring data from a firm with racist hiring policies may lead to a machine learning system duplicating the bias by scoring job applicants by similarity to previous successful applicants.
Machine learning — Another example includes predictive policing company Geolitica's predictive algorithm that resulted in "disproportionately high levels of over-policing in low-income and minority communities" after being trained with historical crime data.
Machine learning — While responsible collection of data and documentation of algorithmic rules used by a system is considered a critical part of machine learning, some researchers blame lack of participation and representation of minority population in the field of AI for machine learning's vulnerability to biases.
Machine learning — In fact, according to research carried out by the Computing Research Association (CRA) in 2021, "female faculty merely make up 16.1%" of all faculty members who focus on AI among several universities around the world.
Machine learning — Furthermore, among the group of "new U.S. resident AI PhD graduates," 45% identified as white, 22.4% as Asian, 3.2% as Hispanic, and 2.4% as African American, which further demonstrates a lack of diversity in the field of AI.
Machine learning — Because human languages contain biases, machines trained on language corpora will necessarily also learn these biases.
Machine learning — In 2016, Microsoft tested Tay, a chatbot that learned from Twitter, and it quickly picked up racist and sexist language.
Machine learning — In an experiment carried out by ProPublica, an investigative journalism organisation, a machine learning algorithm's insight into the recidivism rates among prisoners falsely flagged "black defendants high risk twice as often as white defendants".
Machine learning — In 2015, Google Photos once tagged a couple of black people as gorillas, which caused controversy.
Machine learning — The gorilla label was subsequently removed, and in 2023, it still cannot recognise gorillas.
Machine learning — Similar issues with recognising non-white people have been found in many other systems.
Machine learning — Because of such challenges, the effective use of machine learning may take longer to be adopted in other domains.
Machine learning — Concern for fairness in machine learning, that is, reducing bias in machine learning and propelling its use for human good, is increasingly expressed by artificial intelligence scientists, including Fei-Fei Li, who said that "[t]here's nothing artificial about AI.
Machine learning — It's inspired by people, it's created by people, and—most importantly—it impacts people.
Machine learning — It is a powerful tool we are only just beginning to understand, and that is a profound responsibility."
Machine learning — === Financial incentives === There are concerns among health care professionals that these systems might not be designed in the public's interest but as income-generating machines.
Machine learning — This is especially true in the United States where there is a long-standing ethical dilemma of improving health care, but also increasing profits.
Machine learning — For example, the algorithms could be designed to provide patients with unnecessary tests or medication in which the algorithm's proprietary owners hold stakes.
Machine learning — There is potential for machine learning in health care to provide professionals an additional tool to diagnose, medicate, and plan recovery paths for patients, but this requires these biases to be mitigated.
Machine learning — == Hardware == Since the 2010s, advances in both machine learning algorithms and computer hardware have led to more efficient methods for training deep neural networks (a particular narrow subdomain of machine learning) that contain many layers of nonlinear hidden units.
Machine learning — By 2019, graphics processing units (GPUs), often with AI-specific enhancements, had displaced CPUs as the dominant method of training large-scale commercial cloud AI.
Machine learning — OpenAI estimated the hardware compute used in the largest deep learning projects from AlexNet (2012) to AlphaZero (2017), and found a 300,000-fold increase in the amount of compute required, with a doubling-time trendline of 3.4 months.
Machine learning — === Tensor Processing Units (TPUs) === Tensor Processing Units (TPUs) are specialised hardware accelerators developed by Google specifically for machine learning workloads.
Machine learning — Unlike general-purpose GPUs and FPGAs, TPUs are optimised for tensor computations, making them particularly efficient for deep learning tasks such as training and inference.
Machine learning — They are widely used in Google Cloud AI services and large-scale machine learning models like Google's DeepMind AlphaFold and large language models.
Machine learning — TPUs leverage matrix multiplication units and high-bandwidth memory to accelerate computations while maintaining energy efficiency.
Machine learning — Since their introduction in 2016, TPUs have become a key component of AI infrastructure, especially in cloud-based environments.
Machine learning — === Neuromorphic computing === Neuromorphic computing refers to a class of computing systems designed to emulate the structure and functionality of biological neural networks.
Machine learning — These systems may be implemented through software-based simulations on conventional hardware or through specialised hardware architectures.
Machine learning — ==== Physical neural networks ==== A physical neural network is a specific type of neuromorphic hardware that relies on electrically adjustable materials, such as memristors, to emulate the function of neural synapses.
Machine learning — The term "physical neural network" highlights the use of physical hardware for computation, as opposed to software-based implementations.
Machine learning — It broadly refers to artificial neural networks that use materials with adjustable resistance to replicate neural synapses.
Machine learning — === Embedded machine learning === Embedded machine learning is a sub-field of machine learning where models are deployed on embedded systems with limited computing resources, such as wearable computers, edge devices and microcontrollers.
Machine learning — Running models directly on these devices eliminates the need to transfer and store data on cloud servers for further processing, thereby reducing the risk of data breaches, privacy leaks and theft of intellectual property, personal data and business secrets.
Machine learning — Embedded machine learning can be achieved through various techniques, such as hardware acceleration, approximate computing, and model optimisation.
Machine learning — Common optimisation techniques include pruning, quantization, knowledge distillation, low-rank factorisation, network architecture search, and parameter sharing.
Machine learning — == Software == Software suites containing a variety of machine learning algorithms include the following:
Machine learning — === Proprietary software with free and open-source editions === KNIME RapidMiner
Machine learning — == Journals == Journal of Machine Learning Research Machine Learning Nature Machine Intelligence Neural Computation IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence
Machine learning — == Conferences == AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) European Conference on Machine Learning and Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases (ECML PKDD) International Conference on Computational Intelligence Methods for Bioinformatics and Biostatistics (CIBB) International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD) Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS)
Machine learning — == See also == Automated machine learning – Process of automating the application of machine learning Big data – Extremely large or complex datasets Deep learning — branch of ML concerned with artificial neural networks Differentiable programming – Programming paradigm List of datasets for machine-learning research M-theory (learning framework) – Framework in machine learning Machine unlearning – Field of study in artificial intelligence Solomonoff's theory of inductive inference – Mathematical theory
Machine learning — The Master Algorithm: How the Quest for the Ultimate Learning Machine Will Remake Our World.
Machine learning — Russell, Stuart J.; Norvig, Peter (2003), Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (2nd ed.), Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Prentice Hall, ISBN 0-13-790395-2.
Machine learning — == External links == International Machine Learning Society mloss is an academic database of open-source machine learning software.
Deep learning — In machine learning, deep learning focuses on utilizing multilayered neural networks to perform tasks such as classification, regression, and representation learning.
Deep learning — The field takes inspiration from biological neuroscience and is centered around stacking artificial neurons into layers and "training" them to process data.
Deep learning — The adjective "deep" refers to the use of multiple layers (ranging from three to several hundred or thousands) in the network.
Deep learning — Some common deep learning network architectures include fully connected networks, deep belief networks, recurrent neural networks, convolutional neural networks, generative adversarial networks, transformers, and neural radiance fields.
Deep learning — These architectures have been applied to fields including computer vision, speech recognition, natural language processing, machine translation, bioinformatics, drug design, medical image analysis, climate science, material inspection and board game programs, where they have produced results comparable to and in some cases surpassing human expert performance.
Deep learning — Early forms of neural networks were inspired by information processing and distributed communication nodes in biological systems, particularly the human brain.
Deep learning — However, current neural networks do not intend to model the brain function of organisms, and are generally seen as low-quality models for that purpose.
Deep learning — == Overview == Most modern deep learning models are based on multi-layered neural networks such as convolutional neural networks and transformers, although they can also include propositional formulas or latent variables organized layer-wise in deep generative models such as the nodes in deep belief networks and deep Boltzmann machines.
Deep learning — Fundamentally, deep learning refers to a class of machine learning algorithms in which a hierarchy of layers is used to transform input data into a progressively more abstract and composite representation.
Deep learning — For example, in an image recognition model, the raw input may be an image (represented as a tensor of pixels).
Deep learning — The first representational layer may attempt to identify basic shapes such as lines and circles, the second layer may compose and encode arrangements of edges, the third layer may encode a nose and eyes, and the fourth layer may recognize that the image contains a face.
Deep learning — Importantly, a deep learning process can learn which features to optimally place at which level on its own.
Deep learning — Prior to deep learning, machine learning techniques often involved hand-crafted feature engineering to transform the data into a more suitable representation for a classification algorithm to operate on.
Deep learning — In the deep learning approach, features are not hand-crafted and the model discovers useful feature representations from the data automatically.
Deep learning — This does not eliminate the need for hand-tuning; for example, varying numbers of layers and layer sizes can provide different degrees of abstraction.
Deep learning — The word "deep" in "deep learning" refers to the number of layers through which the data is transformed.
Deep learning — More precisely, deep learning systems have a substantial credit assignment path (CAP) depth.
Deep learning — For a feedforward neural network, the depth of the CAPs is that of the network and is the number of hidden layers plus one (as the output layer is also parameterized).
Deep learning — For recurrent neural networks, in which a signal may propagate through a layer more than once, the CAP depth is potentially unlimited.
Deep learning — No universally agreed-upon threshold of depth divides shallow learning from deep learning, but most researchers agree that deep learning involves CAP depth higher than two.
Deep learning — CAP of depth two has been shown to be a universal approximator in the sense that it can emulate any function.
Deep learning — Beyond that, more layers do not add to the function approximator ability of the network.
Deep learning — Deep models (CAP > two) are able to extract better features than shallow models and hence, extra layers help in learning the features effectively.
Deep learning — Deep learning architectures can be constructed with a greedy layer-by-layer method.
Deep learning — Deep learning helps to disentangle these abstractions and pick out which features improve performance.
Deep learning — This is an important benefit because unlabeled data is more abundant than the labeled data.
Deep learning — Examples of deep structures that can be trained in an unsupervised manner are deep belief networks.
Deep learning — The term deep learning was introduced to the machine learning community by Rina Dechter in 1986, and to artificial neural networks by Igor Aizenberg and colleagues in 2000, in the context of Boolean threshold neurons.
Deep learning — == Interpretations == Deep neural networks are generally interpreted in terms of the universal approximation theorem or probabilistic inference.
Deep learning — The classic universal approximation theorem concerns the capacity of feedforward neural networks with a single hidden layer of finite size to approximate continuous functions.
Deep learning — In 1989, the first proof was published by George Cybenko for sigmoid activation functions and was generalised to feed-forward multi-layer architectures in 1991 by Kurt Hornik.
Deep learning — Recent work also showed that universal approximation also holds for non-bounded activation functions such as Kunihiko Fukushima's rectified linear unit.
Deep learning — The universal approximation theorem for deep neural networks concerns the capacity of networks with bounded width but the depth is allowed to grow.
Deep learning — Lu et al. proved that if the width of a deep neural network with ReLU activation is strictly larger than the input dimension, then the network can approximate any Lebesgue integrable function; if the width is smaller or equal to the input dimension, then a deep neural network is not a universal approximator.
Deep learning — It features inference, as well as the optimization concepts of training and testing, related to fitting and generalization, respectively.
Deep learning — More specifically, the probabilistic interpretation considers the activation nonlinearity as a cumulative distribution function.
Deep learning — The probabilistic interpretation led to the introduction of dropout as regularizer in neural networks.
Deep learning — The probabilistic interpretation was introduced by researchers including Hopfield, Widrow and Narendra and popularized in surveys such as the one by Bishop.
Deep learning — === Before 1980 === There are two types of artificial neural network (ANN): feedforward neural network (FNN) or multilayer perceptron (MLP) and recurrent neural networks (RNN).
Deep learning — In the 1920s, Wilhelm Lenz and Ernst Ising created the Ising model which is essentially a non-learning RNN architecture consisting of neuron-like threshold elements.
Deep learning — Already in 1948, Alan Turing produced work on "Intelligent Machinery" that was not published in his lifetime, containing "ideas related to artificial evolution and learning RNNs".
Deep learning — Frank Rosenblatt (1958) proposed the perceptron, an MLP with 3 layers: an input layer, a hidden layer with randomized weights that did not learn, and an output layer.
Deep learning — He later published a 1962 book that also introduced variants and computer experiments, including a version with four-layer perceptrons "with adaptive preterminal networks" where the last two layers have learned weights (here he credits H.
Deep learning — Joseph (1960) "functionally equivalent to a variation of" this four-layer system (the book mentions Joseph over 30 times).
Deep learning — Should Joseph therefore be considered the originator of proper adaptive multilayer perceptrons with learning hidden units?
Deep learning — Unfortunately, the learning algorithm was not a functional one, and fell into oblivion.
Deep learning — The first working deep learning algorithm was the Group method of data handling, a method to train arbitrarily deep neural networks, published by Alexey Ivakhnenko and Lapa in 1965.
Deep learning — They regarded it as a form of polynomial regression, or a generalization of Rosenblatt's perceptron to handle more complex, nonlinear, and hierarchical relationships.
Deep learning — A 1971 paper described a deep network with eight layers trained by this method, which is based on layer by layer training through regression analysis.
Deep learning — Since the activation functions of the nodes are Kolmogorov-Gabor polynomials, these were also the first deep networks with multiplicative units or "gates".
Deep learning — The first deep learning multilayer perceptron trained by stochastic gradient descent was published in 1967 by Shun'ichi Amari.
Deep learning — In computer experiments conducted by Amari's student Saito, a five layer MLP with two modifiable layers learned internal representations to classify non-linearily separable pattern classes.
Deep learning — Subsequent developments in hardware and hyperparameter tunings have made end-to-end stochastic gradient descent the currently dominant training technique.
Deep learning — In 1969, Kunihiko Fukushima introduced the ReLU (rectified linear unit) activation function.
Deep learning — The rectifier has become the most popular activation function for deep learning.
Deep learning — Deep learning architectures for convolutional neural networks (CNNs) with convolutional layers and downsampling layers began with the Neocognitron introduced by Kunihiko Fukushima in 1979, though not trained by backpropagation.
Deep learning — Backpropagation is an efficient application of the chain rule derived by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz in 1673 to networks of differentiable nodes.
Deep learning — The terminology "back-propagating errors" was actually introduced in 1962 by Rosenblatt, but he did not know how to implement this, although Henry J.
Deep learning — Kelley had a continuous precursor of backpropagation in 1960 in the context of control theory.
Deep learning — The modern form of backpropagation was first published in Seppo Linnainmaa's master thesis (1970).
Deep learning — Paul Werbos applied backpropagation to neural networks in 1982 (his 1974 PhD thesis, reprinted in a 1994 book, did not yet describe the algorithm).
Deep learning — Rumelhart et al. popularised backpropagation but did not cite the original work.
Deep learning — === 1980s-2000s === The time delay neural network (TDNN) was introduced in 1987 by Alex Waibel to apply CNN to phoneme recognition.
Deep learning — In 1988, Wei Zhang applied a backpropagation-trained CNN to alphabet recognition.
Deep learning — In 1989, Yann LeCun et al. created a CNN called LeNet for recognizing handwritten ZIP codes on mail.
Deep learning — In 1991, a CNN was applied to medical image object segmentation and breast cancer detection in mammograms.
Deep learning — LeNet-5 (1998), a 7-level CNN by Yann LeCun et al., that classifies digits, was applied by several banks to recognize hand-written numbers on checks digitized in 32x32 pixel images.
Deep learning — Recurrence is used for sequence processing, and when a recurrent network is unrolled, it mathematically resembles a deep feedforward layer.
Deep learning — Consequently, they have similar properties and issues, and their developments had mutual influences.
Deep learning — In RNN, two early influential works were the Jordan network (1986) and the Elman network (1990), which applied RNN to study problems in cognitive psychology.
Deep learning — In the 1980s, backpropagation did not work well for deep learning with long credit assignment paths.
Deep learning — To overcome this problem, in 1991, Jürgen Schmidhuber proposed a hierarchy of RNNs pre-trained one level at a time by self-supervised learning where each RNN tries to predict its own next input, which is the next unexpected input of the RNN below.
Deep learning — This "neural history compressor" uses predictive coding to learn internal representations at multiple self-organizing time scales.
Deep learning — The RNN hierarchy can be collapsed into a single RNN, by distilling a higher level chunker network into a lower level automatizer network.
Deep learning — In 1993, a neural history compressor solved a "Very Deep Learning" task that required more than 1000 subsequent layers in an RNN unfolded in time.
Deep learning — Sepp Hochreiter's diploma thesis (1991) implemented the neural history compressor, and identified and analyzed the vanishing gradient problem.
Deep learning — Hochreiter proposed recurrent residual connections to solve the vanishing gradient problem.
Deep learning — LSTM can learn "very deep learning" tasks with long credit assignment paths that require memories of events that happened thousands of discrete time steps before.
Deep learning — That LSTM was not yet the modern architecture, which required a "forget gate", introduced in 1999, which became the standard RNN architecture.
Deep learning — In 1991, Jürgen Schmidhuber also published adversarial neural networks that contest with each other in the form of a zero-sum game, where one network's gain is the other network's loss.
Deep learning — The first network is a generative model that models a probability distribution over output patterns.
Deep learning — The second network learns by gradient descent to predict the reactions of the environment to these patterns.
Deep learning — During 1985–1995, inspired by statistical mechanics, several architectures and methods were developed by Terry Sejnowski, Peter Dayan, Geoffrey Hinton, etc., including the Boltzmann machine, restricted Boltzmann machine, Helmholtz machine, and the wake-sleep algorithm.
Deep learning — Boltzmann machine learning algorithm, published in 1985, was briefly popular before being eclipsed by the backpropagation algorithm in 1986. (p.
Deep learning — A 1988 network became state of the art in protein structure prediction, an early application of deep learning to bioinformatics.
Deep learning — Both shallow and deep learning (e.g., recurrent nets) of ANNs for speech recognition have been explored for many years.
Deep learning — These methods never outperformed non-uniform internal-handcrafting Gaussian mixture model/Hidden Markov model (GMM-HMM) technology based on generative models of speech trained discriminatively.
Deep learning — Key difficulties have been analyzed, including gradient diminishing and weak temporal correlation structure in neural predictive models.
Deep learning — Additional difficulties were the lack of training data and limited computing power.
Deep learning — Most speech recognition researchers moved away from neural nets to pursue generative modeling.
Deep learning — Funded by the US government's NSA and DARPA, SRI researched in speech and speaker recognition.
Deep learning — The speaker recognition team led by Larry Heck reported significant success with deep neural networks in speech processing in the 1998 NIST Speaker Recognition benchmark.
Deep learning — It was deployed in the Nuance Verifier, representing the first major industrial application of deep learning.
Deep learning — The principle of elevating "raw" features over hand-crafted optimization was first explored successfully in the architecture of deep autoencoder on the "raw" spectrogram or linear filter-bank features in the late 1990s, showing its superiority over the Mel-Cepstral features that contain stages of fixed transformation from spectrograms.
Deep learning — The raw features of speech, waveforms, later produced excellent larger-scale results.
Deep learning — === 2000s === Neural networks entered a lull, and simpler models that use task-specific handcrafted features such as Gabor filters and support vector machines (SVMs) became the preferred choices in the 1990s and 2000s, because of artificial neural networks' computational cost and a lack of understanding of how the brain wires its biological networks.
Deep learning — In 2003, LSTM became competitive with traditional speech recognizers on certain tasks.
Deep learning — In 2006, Alex Graves, Santiago Fernández, Faustino Gomez, and Schmidhuber combined it with connectionist temporal classification (CTC) in stacks of LSTMs.
Deep learning — In 2009, it became the first RNN to win a pattern recognition contest, in connected handwriting recognition.
Deep learning — In 2006, publications by Geoff Hinton, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Osindero and Teh deep belief networks were developed for generative modeling.
Deep learning — They are trained by training one restricted Boltzmann machine, then freezing it and training another one on top of the first one, and so on, then optionally fine-tuned using supervised backpropagation.
Deep learning — They could model high-dimensional probability distributions, such as the distribution of MNIST images, but convergence was slow.
Deep learning — The impact of deep learning in industry began in the early 2000s, when CNNs already processed an estimated 10% to 20% of all the checks written in the US, according to Yann LeCun.
Deep learning — Industrial applications of deep learning to large-scale speech recognition started around 2010.
Deep learning — The 2009 NIPS Workshop on Deep Learning for Speech Recognition was motivated by the limitations of deep generative models of speech, and the possibility that given more capable hardware and large-scale data sets that deep neural nets might become practical.
Deep learning — It was believed that pre-training DNNs using generative models of deep belief nets (DBN) would overcome the main difficulties of neural nets.
Deep learning — However, it was discovered that replacing pre-training with large amounts of training data for straightforward backpropagation when using DNNs with large, context-dependent output layers produced error rates dramatically lower than then-state-of-the-art Gaussian mixture model (GMM)/Hidden Markov Model (HMM) and also than more-advanced generative model-based systems.
Deep learning — The nature of the recognition errors produced by the two types of systems was characteristically different, offering technical insights into how to integrate deep learning into the existing highly efficient, run-time speech decoding system deployed by all major speech recognition systems.
Deep learning — Analysis around 2009–2010, contrasting the GMM (and other generative speech models) vs.
Deep learning — DNN models, stimulated early industrial investment in deep learning for speech recognition.
Deep learning — That analysis was done with comparable performance (less than 1.5% in error rate) between discriminative DNNs and generative models.
Deep learning — In 2010, researchers extended deep learning from TIMIT to large vocabulary speech recognition, by adopting large output layers of the DNN based on context-dependent HMM states constructed by decision trees.
Deep learning — Although CNNs trained by backpropagation had been around for decades and GPU implementations of NNs for years, including CNNs, faster implementations of CNNs on GPUs were needed to progress on computer vision.
Deep learning — Later, as deep learning becomes widespread, specialized hardware and algorithm optimizations were developed specifically for deep learning.
Deep learning — A key advance for the deep learning revolution was hardware advances, especially GPU.
Deep learning — In 2009, Raina, Madhavan, and Andrew Ng reported a 100M deep belief network trained on 30 Nvidia GeForce GTX 280 GPUs, an early demonstration of GPU-based deep learning.
Deep learning — In 2011, a CNN named DanNet by Dan Ciresan, Ueli Meier, Jonathan Masci, Luca Maria Gambardella, and Jürgen Schmidhuber achieved for the first time superhuman performance in a visual pattern recognition contest, outperforming traditional methods by a factor of 3.
Deep learning — They also showed how max-pooling CNNs on GPU improved performance significantly.
Deep learning — In 2012, Andrew Ng and Jeff Dean created an FNN that learned to recognize higher-level concepts, such as cats, only from watching unlabeled images taken from YouTube videos.
Deep learning — In October 2012, AlexNet by Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Geoffrey Hinton won the large-scale ImageNet competition by a significant margin over shallow machine learning methods.
Deep learning — Further incremental improvements included the VGG-16 network by Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman and Google's Inceptionv3.
Deep learning — The success in image classification was then extended to the more challenging task of generating descriptions (captions) for images, often as a combination of CNNs and LSTMs.
Deep learning — In 2014, the state of the art was training “very deep neural network” with 20 to 30 layers.
Deep learning — Stacking too many layers led to a steep reduction in training accuracy, known as the "degradation" problem.
Deep learning — In 2015, two techniques were developed to train very deep networks: the Highway Network was published in May 2015, and the residual neural network (ResNet) in Dec 2015.
Deep learning — Early examples included Google DeepDream (2015), and neural style transfer (2015), both of which were based on pretrained image classification neural networks, such as VGG-19.
Deep learning — Generative adversarial network (GAN) by (Ian Goodfellow et al., 2014) (based on Jürgen Schmidhuber's principle of artificial curiosity) became state of the art in generative modeling during 2014-2018 period.
Deep learning — Excellent image quality is achieved by Nvidia's StyleGAN (2018) based on the Progressive GAN by Tero Karras et al.
Deep learning — Here the GAN generator is grown from small to large scale in a pyramidal fashion.
Deep learning — Image generation by GAN reached popular success, and provoked discussions concerning deepfakes.
Deep learning — Diffusion models (2015) eclipsed GANs in generative modeling since then, with systems such as DALL·E 2 (2022) and Stable Diffusion (2022).
Deep learning — In 2015, Google's speech recognition improved by 49% by an LSTM-based model, which they made available through Google Voice Search on smartphone.
Deep learning — Deep learning is part of state-of-the-art systems in various disciplines, particularly computer vision and automatic speech recognition (ASR).
Deep learning — Results on commonly used evaluation sets such as TIMIT (ASR) and MNIST (image classification), as well as a range of large-vocabulary speech recognition tasks have steadily improved.
Deep learning — Convolutional neural networks were superseded for ASR by LSTM. but are more successful in computer vision.
Deep learning — Yoshua Bengio, Geoffrey Hinton and Yann LeCun were awarded the 2018 Turing Award for "conceptual and engineering breakthroughs that have made deep neural networks a critical component of computing".
Deep learning — Artificial neural networks (ANNs) or connectionist systems are computing systems inspired by the biological neural networks that constitute animal brains.
Deep learning — Such systems learn (progressively improve their ability) to do tasks by considering examples, generally without task-specific programming.
Deep learning — For example, in image recognition, they might learn to identify images that contain cats by analyzing example images that have been manually labeled as "cat" or "no cat" and using the analytic results to identify cats in other images.
Deep learning — They have found most use in applications difficult to express with a traditional computer algorithm using rule-based programming.
Deep learning — An ANN is based on a collection of connected units called artificial neurons, (analogous to biological neurons in a biological brain).
Deep learning — Each connection (synapse) between neurons can transmit a signal to another neuron.
Deep learning — The receiving (postsynaptic) neuron can process the signal(s) and then signal downstream neurons connected to it.
Deep learning — Neurons may have state, generally represented by real numbers, typically between 0 and 1.
Deep learning — Neurons and synapses may also have a weight that varies as learning proceeds, which can increase or decrease the strength of the signal that it sends downstream.
Deep learning — Different layers may perform different kinds of transformations on their inputs.
Deep learning — Signals travel from the first (input), to the last (output) layer, possibly after traversing the layers multiple times.
Deep learning — The original goal of the neural network approach was to solve problems in the same way that a human brain would.
Deep learning — Over time, attention focused on matching specific mental abilities, leading to deviations from biology such as backpropagation, or passing information in the reverse direction and adjusting the network to reflect that information.
Deep learning — Neural networks have been used on a variety of tasks, including computer vision, speech recognition, machine translation, social network filtering, playing board and video games and medical diagnosis.
Deep learning — As of 2017, neural networks typically have a few thousand to a few million units and millions of connections.
Deep learning — Despite this number being several order of magnitude less than the number of neurons on a human brain, these networks can perform many tasks at a level beyond that of humans (e.g., recognizing faces, or playing "Go").
Deep learning — === Deep neural networks === A deep neural network (DNN) is an artificial neural network with multiple layers between the input and output layers.
Deep learning — There are different types of neural networks but they always consist of the same components: neurons, synapses, weights, biases, and functions.
Deep learning — These components as a whole function in a way that mimics functions of the human brain, and can be trained like any other ML algorithm.
Deep learning — For example, a DNN that is trained to recognize dog breeds will go over the given image and calculate the probability that the dog in the image is a certain breed.
Deep learning — The user can review the results and select which probabilities the network should display (above a certain threshold, etc.) and return the proposed label.
Deep learning — Each mathematical manipulation as such is considered a layer, and complex DNN have many layers, hence the name "deep" networks.
Deep learning — DNN architectures generate compositional models where the object is expressed as a layered composition of primitives.
Deep learning — The extra layers enable composition of features from lower layers, potentially modeling complex data with fewer units than a similarly performing shallow network.
Deep learning — For instance, it was proved that sparse multivariate polynomials are exponentially easier to approximate with DNNs than with shallow networks.
Deep learning — It is not always possible to compare the performance of multiple architectures, unless they have been evaluated on the same data sets.
Deep learning — DNNs are typically feedforward networks in which data flows from the input layer to the output layer without looping back.
Deep learning — At first, the DNN creates a map of virtual neurons and assigns random numerical values, or "weights", to connections between them.
Deep learning — If the network did not accurately recognize a particular pattern, an algorithm would adjust the weights.
Deep learning — That way the algorithm can make certain parameters more influential, until it determines the correct mathematical manipulation to fully process the data.
Deep learning — Recurrent neural networks, in which data can flow in any direction, are used for applications such as language modeling.
Deep learning — CNNs also have been applied to acoustic modeling for automatic speech recognition (ASR).
Deep learning — ==== Challenges ==== As with ANNs, many issues can arise with naively trained DNNs.
Deep learning — DNNs are prone to overfitting because of the added layers of abstraction, which allow them to model rare dependencies in the training data.
Deep learning — Regularization methods such as Ivakhnenko's unit pruning or weight decay ( ℓ 2 {\displaystyle \ell _{2}} -regularization) or sparsity ( ℓ 1 {\displaystyle \ell _{1}} -regularization) can be applied during training to combat overfitting.
Deep learning — Alternatively dropout regularization randomly omits units from the hidden layers during training.
Deep learning — Another interesting recent development is research into models of just enough complexity through an estimation of the intrinsic complexity of the task being modelled.
Deep learning — This approach has been successfully applied for multivariate time series prediction tasks such as traffic prediction.
Deep learning — Finally, data can be augmented via methods such as cropping and rotating such that smaller training sets can be increased in size to reduce the chances of overfitting.
Deep learning — DNNs must consider many training parameters, such as the size (number of layers and number of units per layer), the learning rate, and initial weights.
Deep learning — Sweeping through the parameter space for optimal parameters may not be feasible due to the cost in time and computational resources.
Deep learning — Various tricks, such as batching (computing the gradient on several training examples at once rather than individual examples) speed up computation.
Deep learning — Large processing capabilities of many-core architectures (such as GPUs or the Intel Xeon Phi) have produced significant speedups in training, because of the suitability of such processing architectures for the matrix and vector computations.
Deep learning — Alternatively, engineers may look for other types of neural networks with more straightforward and convergent training algorithms.
Deep learning — CMAC (cerebellar model articulation controller) is one such kind of neural network.
Deep learning — The training process can be guaranteed to converge in one step with a new batch of data, and the computational complexity of the training algorithm is linear with respect to the number of neurons involved.
Deep learning — == Hardware == Since the 2010s, advances in both machine learning algorithms and computer hardware have led to more efficient methods for training deep neural networks that contain many layers of non-linear hidden units and a very large output layer.
Deep learning — By 2019, graphics processing units (GPUs), often with AI-specific enhancements, had displaced CPUs as the dominant method for training large-scale commercial cloud AI .
Deep learning — OpenAI estimated the hardware computation used in the largest deep learning projects from AlexNet (2012) to AlphaZero (2017) and found a 300,000-fold increase in the amount of computation required, with a doubling-time trendline of 3.4 months.
Deep learning — Special electronic circuits called deep learning processors were designed to speed up deep learning algorithms.
Deep learning — Deep learning processors include neural processing units (NPUs) in Huawei cellphones and cloud computing servers such as tensor processing units (TPU) in the Google Cloud Platform.
Deep learning — Cerebras Systems has also built a dedicated system to handle large deep learning models, the CS-2, based on the largest processor in the industry, the second-generation Wafer Scale Engine (WSE-2).
Deep learning — Atomically thin semiconductors are considered promising for energy-efficient deep learning hardware where the same basic device structure is used for both logic operations and data storage.
Deep learning — In 2020, Marega et al. published experiments with a large-area active channel material for developing logic-in-memory devices and circuits based on floating-gate field-effect transistors (FGFETs).
Deep learning — Feldmann et al. proposed an integrated photonic hardware accelerator for parallel convolutional processing.
Deep learning — The authors identify two key advantages of integrated photonics over its electronic counterparts: (1) massively parallel data transfer through wavelength division multiplexing in conjunction with frequency combs, and (2) extremely high data modulation speeds.
Deep learning — Their system can execute trillions of multiply-accumulate operations per second, indicating the potential of integrated photonics in data-heavy AI applications.
Deep learning — Large-scale automatic speech recognition is the first and most convincing successful case of deep learning.
Deep learning — LSTM RNNs can learn "Very Deep Learning" tasks that involve multi-second intervals containing speech events separated by thousands of discrete time steps, where one time step corresponds to about 10 ms.
Deep learning — LSTM with forget gates is competitive with traditional speech recognizers on certain tasks.
Deep learning — The initial success in speech recognition was based on small-scale recognition tasks based on TIMIT.
Deep learning — The data set contains 630 speakers from eight major dialects of American English, where each speaker reads 10 sentences.
Deep learning — More importantly, the TIMIT task concerns phone-sequence recognition, which, unlike word-sequence recognition, allows weak phone bigram language models.
Deep learning — This lets the strength of the acoustic modeling aspects of speech recognition be more easily analyzed.
Deep learning — The error rates listed below, including these early results and measured as percent phone error rates (PER), have been summarized since 1991.
Deep learning — The debut of DNNs for speaker recognition in the late 1990s and speech recognition around 2009-2011 and of LSTM around 2003–2007, accelerated progress in eight major areas:
Deep learning — Scale-up/out and accelerated DNN training and decoding Sequence discriminative training Feature processing by deep models with solid understanding of the underlying mechanisms Adaptation of DNNs and related deep models Multi-task and transfer learning by DNNs and related deep models CNNs and how to design them to best exploit domain knowledge of speech RNN and its rich LSTM variants Other types of deep models including tensor-based models and integrated deep generative/discriminative models.
Deep learning — More recent speech recognition models use Transformers or Temporal Convolution Networks with significant success and widespread applications.
Deep learning — All major commercial speech recognition systems (e.g., Microsoft Cortana, Xbox, Skype Translator, Amazon Alexa, Google Now, Apple Siri, Baidu and iFlyTek voice search, and a range of Nuance speech products, etc.) are based on deep learning.
Deep learning — A common evaluation set for image classification is the MNIST database data set.
Deep learning — MNIST is composed of handwritten digits and includes 60,000 training examples and 10,000 test examples.
Deep learning — Deep learning-based image recognition has become "superhuman", producing more accurate results than human contestants.
Deep learning — This first occurred in 2011 in recognition of traffic signs, and in 2014, with recognition of human faces.
Deep learning — Another example is Facial Dysmorphology Novel Analysis (FDNA) used to analyze cases of human malformation connected to a large database of genetic syndromes.
Deep learning — Closely related to the progress that has been made in image recognition is the increasing application of deep learning techniques to various visual art tasks.
Deep learning — identifying the style period of a given painting Neural Style Transfer – capturing the style of a given artwork and applying it in a visually pleasing manner to an arbitrary photograph or video generating striking imagery based on random visual input fields.
Deep learning — Neural networks have been used for implementing language models since the early 2000s.
Deep learning — Word embedding, such as word2vec, can be thought of as a representational layer in a deep learning architecture that transforms an atomic word into a positional representation of the word relative to other words in the dataset; the position is represented as a point in a vector space.
Deep learning — Using word embedding as an RNN input layer allows the network to parse sentences and phrases using an effective compositional vector grammar.
Deep learning — A compositional vector grammar can be thought of as probabilistic context free grammar (PCFG) implemented by an RNN.
Deep learning — Recursive auto-encoders built atop word embeddings can assess sentence similarity and detect paraphrasing.
Deep learning — Deep neural architectures provide the best results for constituency parsing, sentiment analysis, information retrieval, spoken language understanding, machine translation, contextual entity linking, writing style recognition, named-entity recognition (token classification), text classification, and others.
Deep learning — Google Translate (GT) uses a large end-to-end long short-term memory (LSTM) network.
Deep learning — Google Neural Machine Translation (GNMT) uses an example-based machine translation method in which the system "learns from millions of examples".
Deep learning — The network encodes the "semantics of the sentence rather than simply memorizing phrase-to-phrase translations".
Deep learning — These failures are caused by insufficient efficacy (on-target effect), undesired interactions (off-target effects), or unanticipated toxic effects.
Deep learning — Research has explored use of deep learning to predict the biomolecular targets, off-targets, and toxic effects of environmental chemicals in nutrients, household products and drugs.
Deep learning — AtomNet was used to predict novel candidate biomolecules for disease targets such as the Ebola virus and multiple sclerosis.
Deep learning — In 2017 graph neural networks were used for the first time to predict various properties of molecules in a large toxicology data set.
Deep learning — In 2019, generative neural networks were used to produce molecules that were validated experimentally all the way into mice.
Deep learning — Deep reinforcement learning has been used to approximate the value of possible direct marketing actions, defined in terms of RFM variables.
Deep learning — The estimated value function was shown to have a natural interpretation as customer lifetime value.
Deep learning — Recommendation systems have used deep learning to extract meaningful features for a latent factor model for content-based music and journal recommendations.
Deep learning — Multi-view deep learning has been applied for learning user preferences from multiple domains.
Deep learning — The model uses a hybrid collaborative and content-based approach and enhances recommendations in multiple tasks.
Deep learning — An autoencoder ANN was used in bioinformatics, to predict gene ontology annotations and gene-function relationships.
Deep learning — In medical informatics, deep learning was used to predict sleep quality based on data from wearables and predictions of health complications from electronic health record data.
Deep learning — Deep neural networks have shown unparalleled performance in predicting protein structure, according to the sequence of the amino acids that make it up.
Deep learning — In 2020, AlphaFold, a deep-learning based system, achieved a level of accuracy significantly higher than all previous computational methods.
Deep learning — === Deep Neural Network Estimations === Deep neural networks can be used to estimate the entropy of a stochastic process and called Neural Joint Entropy Estimator (NJEE).
Deep learning — Such an estimation provides insights on the effects of input random variables on an independent random variable.
Deep learning — Practically, the DNN is trained as a classifier that maps an input vector or matrix X to an output probability distribution over the possible classes of random variable Y, given input X.
Deep learning — For example, in image classification tasks, the NJEE maps a vector of pixels' color values to probabilities over possible image classes.
Deep learning — In practice, the probability distribution of Y is obtained by a Softmax layer with number of nodes that is equal to the alphabet size of Y.
Deep learning — NJEE uses continuously differentiable activation functions, such that the conditions for the universal approximation theorem holds.
Deep learning — It is shown that this method provides a strongly consistent estimator and outperforms other methods in case of large alphabet sizes.
Deep learning — === Medical image analysis === Deep learning has been shown to produce competitive results in medical application such as cancer cell classification, lesion detection, organ segmentation and image enhancement.
Deep learning — Modern deep learning tools demonstrate the high accuracy of detecting various diseases and the helpfulness of their use by specialists to improve the diagnosis efficiency.
Deep learning — === Mobile advertising === Finding the appropriate mobile audience for mobile advertising is always challenging, since many data points must be considered and analyzed before a target segment can be created and used in ad serving by any ad server.
Deep learning — Deep learning has been used to interpret large, many-dimensioned advertising datasets.
Deep learning — Many data points are collected during the request/serve/click internet advertising cycle.
Deep learning — This information can form the basis of machine learning to improve ad selection.
Deep learning — === Image restoration === Deep learning has been successfully applied to inverse problems such as denoising, super-resolution, inpainting, and film colorization.
Deep learning — These applications include learning methods such as "Shrinkage Fields for Effective Image Restoration" which trains on an image dataset, and Deep Image Prior, which trains on the image that needs restoration.
Deep learning — === Financial fraud detection === Deep learning is being successfully applied to financial fraud detection, tax evasion detection, and anti-money laundering.
Deep learning — === Materials science === In November 2023, researchers at Google DeepMind and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory announced that they had developed an AI system known as GNoME.
Deep learning — This system has contributed to materials science by discovering over 2 million new materials within a relatively short timeframe.
Deep learning — GNoME employs deep learning techniques to efficiently explore potential material structures, achieving a significant increase in the identification of stable inorganic crystal structures.
Deep learning — The system's predictions were validated through autonomous robotic experiments, demonstrating a noteworthy success rate of 71%.
Deep learning — The data of newly discovered materials is publicly available through the Materials Project database, offering researchers the opportunity to identify materials with desired properties for various applications.
Deep learning — This development has implications for the future of scientific discovery and the integration of AI in material science research, potentially expediting material innovation and reducing costs in product development.
Deep learning — The use of AI and deep learning suggests the possibility of minimizing or eliminating manual lab experiments and allowing scientists to focus more on the design and analysis of unique compounds.
Deep learning — === Military === The United States Department of Defense applied deep learning to train robots in new tasks through observation.
Deep learning — === Partial differential equations === Physics informed neural networks have been used to solve partial differential equations in both forward and inverse problems in a data driven manner.
Deep learning — One example is the reconstructing fluid flow governed by the Navier-Stokes equations.
Deep learning — Using physics informed neural networks does not require the often expensive mesh generation that conventional CFD methods rely on.
Deep learning — === Deep backward stochastic differential equation method === Deep backward stochastic differential equation method is a numerical method that combines deep learning with Backward stochastic differential equation (BSDE).
Deep learning — This method is particularly useful for solving high-dimensional problems in financial mathematics.
Deep learning — By leveraging the powerful function approximation capabilities of deep neural networks, deep BSDE addresses the computational challenges faced by traditional numerical methods in high-dimensional settings.
Deep learning — Specifically, traditional methods like finite difference methods or Monte Carlo simulations often struggle with the curse of dimensionality, where computational cost increases exponentially with the number of dimensions.
Deep learning — Deep BSDE methods, however, employ deep neural networks to approximate solutions of high-dimensional partial differential equations (PDEs), effectively reducing the computational burden.
Deep learning — In addition, the integration of Physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) into the deep BSDE framework enhances its capability by embedding the underlying physical laws directly into the neural network architecture.
Deep learning — This ensures that the solutions not only fit the data but also adhere to the governing stochastic differential equations.
Deep learning — PINNs leverage the power of deep learning while respecting the constraints imposed by the physical models, resulting in more accurate and reliable solutions for financial mathematics problems.
Deep learning — === Image reconstruction === Image reconstruction is the reconstruction of the underlying images from the image-related measurements.
Deep learning — Several works showed the better and superior performance of the deep learning methods compared to analytical methods for various applications, e.g., spectral imaging and ultrasound imaging.
Deep learning — === Weather prediction === Traditional weather prediction systems solve a very complex system of partial differential equations.
Deep learning — GraphCast is a deep learning based model, trained on a long history of weather data to predict how weather patterns change over time.
Deep learning — It is able to predict weather conditions for up to 10 days globally, at a very detailed level, and in under a minute, with precision similar to state of the art systems.
Deep learning — Galkin et al. used deep neural networks to train an epigenetic aging clock of unprecedented accuracy using >6,000 blood samples.
Deep learning — The clock uses information from 1000 CpG sites and predicts people with certain conditions older than healthy controls: IBD, frontotemporal dementia, ovarian cancer, obesity.
Deep learning — The aging clock was planned to be released for public use in 2021 by an Insilico Medicine spinoff company Deep Longevity.
Deep learning — == Relation to human cognitive and brain development == Deep learning is closely related to a class of theories of brain development (specifically, neocortical development) proposed by cognitive neuroscientists in the early 1990s.
Deep learning — These developmental theories were instantiated in computational models, making them predecessors of deep learning systems.
Deep learning — These developmental models share the property that various proposed learning dynamics in the brain (e.g., a wave of nerve growth factor) support the self-organization somewhat analogous to the neural networks utilized in deep learning models.
Deep learning — Like the neocortex, neural networks employ a hierarchy of layered filters in which each layer considers information from a prior layer (or the operating environment), and then passes its output (and possibly the original input), to other layers.
Deep learning — This process yields a self-organizing stack of transducers, well-tuned to their operating environment.
Deep learning — A 1995 description stated, "...the infant's brain seems to organize itself under the influence of waves of so-called trophic-factors ... different regions of the brain become connected sequentially, with one layer of tissue maturing before another and so on until the whole brain is mature".
Deep learning — A variety of approaches have been used to investigate the plausibility of deep learning models from a neurobiological perspective.
Deep learning — On the one hand, several variants of the backpropagation algorithm have been proposed in order to increase its processing realism.
Deep learning — Other researchers have argued that unsupervised forms of deep learning, such as those based on hierarchical generative models and deep belief networks, may be closer to biological reality.
Deep learning — In this respect, generative neural network models have been related to neurobiological evidence about sampling-based processing in the cerebral cortex.
Deep learning — Although a systematic comparison between the human brain organization and the neuronal encoding in deep networks has not yet been established, several analogies have been reported.
Deep learning — For example, the computations performed by deep learning units could be similar to those of actual neurons and neural populations.
Deep learning — Similarly, the representations developed by deep learning models are similar to those measured in the primate visual system both at the single-unit and at the population levels.
Deep learning — == Commercial activity == Facebook's AI lab performs tasks such as automatically tagging uploaded pictures with the names of the people in them.
Deep learning — Google's DeepMind Technologies developed a system capable of learning how to play Atari video games using only pixels as data input.
Deep learning — In 2015 they demonstrated their AlphaGo system, which learned the game of Go well enough to beat a professional Go player.
Deep learning — Google Translate uses a neural network to translate between more than 100 languages.
Deep learning — In 2017, Covariant.ai was launched, which focuses on integrating deep learning into factories.
Deep learning — As of 2008, researchers at The University of Texas at Austin (UT) developed a machine learning framework called Training an Agent Manually via Evaluative Reinforcement, or TAMER, which proposed new methods for robots or computer programs to learn how to perform tasks by interacting with a human instructor.
Deep learning — First developed as TAMER, a new algorithm called Deep TAMER was later introduced in 2018 during a collaboration between U.S.
Deep learning — Deep TAMER used deep learning to provide a robot with the ability to learn new tasks through observation.
Deep learning — Using Deep TAMER, a robot learned a task with a human trainer, watching video streams or observing a human perform a task in-person.
Deep learning — The robot later practiced the task with the help of some coaching from the trainer, who provided feedback such as "good job" and "bad job".
Deep learning — == Criticism and comment == Deep learning has attracted both criticism and comment, in some cases from outside the field of computer science.
Deep learning — Learning in the most common deep architectures is implemented using well-understood gradient descent.
Deep learning — However, the theory surrounding other algorithms, such as contrastive divergence is less clear. (e.g., Does it converge?
Deep learning — What is it approximating?) Deep learning methods are often looked at as a black box, with most confirmations done empirically, rather than theoretically.
Deep learning — In further reference to the idea that artistic sensitivity might be inherent in relatively low levels of the cognitive hierarchy, a published series of graphic representations of the internal states of deep (20-30 layers) neural networks attempting to discern within essentially random data the images on which they were trained demonstrate a visual appeal: the original research notice received well over 1,000 comments, and was the subject of what was for a time the most frequently accessed article on The Guardian's website.
Deep learning — Furthermore, some researchers have argued that standard loss functions and differentiable architectures in deep learning may limit the discovery of deeper causal or generative mechanisms.
Deep learning — Building on Algorithmic information theory (AIT), Hernández-Orozco et al. (2021) proposed an algorithmic loss function to measure the discrepancy between predicted and observed system behavior.
Deep learning — Their approach integrates AIT with Machine learning to formulate a framework for learning generative rules in non-differentiable spaces, bridging discrete algorithmic theory with continuous optimization techniques.
Deep learning — This framework provides a new perspective on generalization and model interpretability by grounding learning dynamics in algorithmic complexity.
Deep learning — === Errors === Some deep learning architectures display problematic behaviors, such as confidently classifying unrecognizable images as belonging to a familiar category of ordinary images (2014) and misclassifying minuscule perturbations of correctly classified images (2013).
Deep learning — Goertzel hypothesized that these behaviors are due to limitations in their internal representations and that these limitations would inhibit integration into heterogeneous multi-component artificial general intelligence (AGI) architectures.
Deep learning — These issues may possibly be addressed by deep learning architectures that internally form states homologous to image-grammar decompositions of observed entities and events.
Deep learning — Learning a grammar (visual or linguistic) from training data would be equivalent to restricting the system to commonsense reasoning that operates on concepts in terms of grammatical production rules and is a basic goal of both human language acquisition and artificial intelligence (AI).
Deep learning — === Cyber threat === As deep learning moves from the lab into the world, research and experience show that artificial neural networks are vulnerable to hacks and deception.
Deep learning — By identifying patterns that these systems use to function, attackers can modify inputs to ANNs in such a way that the ANN finds a match that human observers would not recognize.
Deep learning — For example, an attacker can make subtle changes to an image such that the ANN finds a match even though the image looks to a human nothing like the search target.
Deep learning — In 2016 researchers used one ANN to doctor images in trial and error fashion, identify another's focal points, and thereby generate images that deceived it.
Deep learning — Another group showed that printouts of doctored images then photographed successfully tricked an image classification system.
Deep learning — One defense is reverse image search, in which a possible fake image is submitted to a site such as TinEye that can then find other instances of it.
Deep learning — A refinement is to search using only parts of the image, to identify images from which that piece may have been taken.
Deep learning — Another group showed that certain psychedelic spectacles could fool a facial recognition system into thinking ordinary people were celebrities, potentially allowing one person to impersonate another.
Deep learning — In 2017 researchers added stickers to stop signs and caused an ANN to misclassify them.
Deep learning — ANNs can however be further trained to detect attempts at deception, potentially leading attackers and defenders into an arms race similar to the kind that already defines the malware defense industry.
Deep learning — ANNs have been trained to defeat ANN-based anti-malware software by repeatedly attacking a defense with malware that was continually altered by a genetic algorithm until it tricked the anti-malware while retaining its ability to damage the target.
Deep learning — In 2016, another group demonstrated that certain sounds could make the Google Now voice command system open a particular web address, and hypothesized that this could "serve as a stepping stone for further attacks (e.g., opening a web page hosting drive-by malware)".
Deep learning — In "data poisoning", false data is continually smuggled into a machine learning system's training set to prevent it from achieving mastery.
Deep learning — === Data collection ethics === The deep learning systems that are trained using supervised learning often rely on data that is created or annotated by humans, or both.
Deep learning — It has been argued that not only low-paid clickwork (such as on Amazon Mechanical Turk) is regularly deployed for this purpose, but also implicit forms of human microwork that are often not recognized as such.
Deep learning — The philosopher Rainer Mühlhoff distinguishes five types of "machinic capture" of human microwork to generate training data: (1) gamification (the embedding of annotation or computation tasks in the flow of a game), (2) "trapping and tracking" (e.g.
Deep learning — CAPTCHAs for image recognition or click-tracking on Google search results pages), (3) exploitation of social motivations (e.g. tagging faces on Facebook to obtain labeled facial images), (4) information mining (e.g. by leveraging quantified-self devices such as activity trackers) and (5) clickwork.
Deep learning — == See also == Applications of artificial intelligence Comparison of deep learning software Compressed sensing Differentiable programming Echo state network List of artificial intelligence projects Liquid state machine List of datasets for machine-learning research Reservoir computing Scale space and deep learning Sparse coding Stochastic parrot Topological deep learning
Neural network — A neural network is a group of interconnected units called neurons that send signals to one another.
Neural network — While individual neurons are simple, many of them together in a network can perform complex tasks.
Neural network — In neuroscience, a biological neural network is a physical structure found in brains and complex nervous systems – a population of nerve cells connected by synapses.
Neural network — In machine learning, an artificial neural network is a mathematical model used to approximate nonlinear functions.
Neural network — In the context of biology, a neural network is a population of biological neurons chemically connected to each other by synapses.
Neural network — Each neuron sends and receives electrochemical signals called action potentials to its connected neighbors.
Neural network — A neuron can serve an excitatory role, amplifying and propagating signals it receives, or an inhibitory role, suppressing signals instead.
Neural network — Populations of interconnected neurons that are smaller than neural networks are called neural circuits.
Neural network — Very large interconnected networks are called large scale brain networks, and many of these together form brains and nervous systems.
Neural network — Signals generated by neural networks in the brain eventually travel through the nervous system and across neuromuscular junctions to muscle cells, where they cause contraction and thereby motion.
Neural network — In machine learning, a neural network is an artificial mathematical model used to approximate nonlinear functions.
Neural network — While early artificial neural networks were physical machines, today they are almost always implemented in software.
Neural network — Neurons in an artificial neural network are usually arranged into layers, with information passing from the first layer (the input layer) through one or more intermediate layers (the hidden layers) to the final layer (the output layer).
Neural network — The "signal" input to each neuron is a number, specifically a linear combination of the outputs of the connected neurons in the previous layer.
Neural network — The signal each neuron outputs is calculated from this number, according to its activation function.
Neural network — The behavior of the network depends on the strengths (or weights) of the connections between neurons.
Neural network — A network is trained by modifying these weights through empirical risk minimization or backpropagation in order to fit some preexisting dataset.
Neural network — The term deep neural network refers to neural networks that have more than three layers, typically including at least two hidden layers in addition to the input and output layers.
Neural network — Neural networks are used to solve problems in artificial intelligence, and have thereby found applications in many disciplines, including predictive modeling, adaptive control, facial recognition, handwriting recognition, general game playing, and generative AI.
Neural network — The theoretical base for contemporary neural networks was independently proposed by Alexander Bain in 1873 and William James in 1890.
Neural network — Both posited that human thought emerged from interactions among large numbers of neurons inside the brain.
Neural network — In 1949, Donald Hebb described Hebbian learning, the idea that neural networks can change and learn over time by strengthening a synapse every time a signal travels along it.
Neural network — Artificial neural networks were originally used to model biological neural networks starting in the 1930s under the approach of connectionism.
Neural network — However, starting with the invention of the perceptron, a simple artificial neural network, by Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts in 1943, followed by the implementation of one in hardware by Frank Rosenblatt in 1957, artificial neural networks became increasingly used for machine learning applications instead, and increasingly different from their biological counterparts.
Large language model — A large language model (LLM) is a language model trained with self-supervised machine learning on a vast amount of text, designed for natural language processing tasks, especially language generation.
Large language model — The largest and most capable LLMs are generative pretrained transformers (GPTs), based on a transformer architecture, which are largely used in generative chatbots such as ChatGPT, Gemini and Claude.
Large language model — These models acquire predictive power regarding syntax, semantics, and ontologies inherent in human language corpora, but they also inherit inaccuracies and biases present in the data they are trained on.
Large language model — Before the emergence of transformer-based models in 2017, some language models were considered large relative to the computational and data constraints of their time.
Large language model — In the early 1990s, IBM's statistical models pioneered word alignment techniques for machine translation, laying the groundwork for corpus-based language modeling.
Large language model — A smoothed n-gram model in 2001, such as those employing Kneser-Ney smoothing, trained on 300 million words achieved state-of-the-art perplexity on benchmark tests at the time.
Large language model — During the 2000s, with the rise of widespread internet access, researchers began compiling massive text datasets from the web ("web as corpus") to train statistical language models.
Large language model — Moving beyond n-gram models, researchers started in 2000 to use neural networks to learn language models.
Large language model — Following the breakthrough of deep neural networks in image classification around 2012, similar architectures were adapted for language tasks.
Large language model — This shift was marked by the development of word embeddings (eg, Word2Vec by Mikolov in 2013) and sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models using LSTM.
Large language model — In 2016, Google transitioned its translation service to neural machine translation (NMT), replacing statistical phrase-based models with deep recurrent neural networks.
Large language model — These early NMT systems used LSTM-based encoder-decoder architectures, as they preceded the invention of transformers.
Large language model — At the 2017 NeurIPS conference, Google researchers introduced the transformer architecture in their landmark paper "Attention Is All You Need".
Large language model — This paper's goal was to improve upon 2014 seq2seq technology, and was based mainly on the attention mechanism developed by Bahdanau et al. in 2014.
Large language model — The following year in 2018, BERT was introduced and quickly became "ubiquitous".
Large language model — Though the original transformer has both encoder and decoder blocks, BERT is an encoder-only model.
Large language model — Academic and research usage of BERT began to decline in 2023, following rapid improvements in the abilities of decoder-only models (such as GPT) to solve tasks via prompting.
Large language model — Although decoder-only GPT-1 was introduced in 2018, it was GPT-2 in 2019 that caught widespread attention because OpenAI claimed to have initially deemed it too powerful to release publicly, out of fear of malicious use.
Large language model — GPT-3 in 2020 went a step further and as of 2025 is available only via API with no offering of downloading the model to execute locally.
Large language model — But it was the 2022 consumer-facing chatbot ChatGPT that received extensive media coverage and public attention.
Large language model — The 2023 GPT-4 was praised for its increased accuracy and as a "holy grail" for its multimodal capabilities.
Large language model — OpenAI did not reveal the high-level architecture and the number of parameters of GPT-4.
Large language model — The release of ChatGPT led to an uptick in LLM usage across several research subfields of computer science, including robotics, software engineering, and societal impact work.
Large language model — In 2024 OpenAI released the reasoning model OpenAI o1, which generates long chains of thought before returning a final answer.
Large language model — Many LLMs with parameter counts comparable to those of OpenAI's GPT series have been developed.
Large language model — Since 2022, source-available models have been gaining popularity, especially at first with BLOOM and LLaMA, though both have restrictions on the field of use.
Large language model — Mistral AI's models Mistral 7B and Mixtral 8x7b have the more permissive Apache License.
Large language model — In January 2025, DeepSeek released DeepSeek R1, a 671-billion-parameter open-weight model that performs comparably to OpenAI o1 but at a much lower cost.
Large language model — Since 2023, many LLMs have been trained to be multimodal, having the ability to also process or generate other types of data, such as images or audio.
Large language model — As of 2024, the largest and most capable models are all based on the transformer architecture.
Large language model — Some recent implementations are based on other architectures, such as recurrent neural network variants and Mamba (a state space model).
Large language model — As machine learning algorithms process numbers rather than text, the text must be converted to numbers.
Large language model — In the first step, a vocabulary is decided upon, then integer indices are arbitrarily but uniquely assigned to each vocabulary entry, and finally, an embedding is associated to the integer index.
Large language model — There are also special tokens serving as control characters, such as [MASK] for masked-out token (as used in BERT), and [UNK] ("unknown") for characters not appearing in the vocabulary.
Large language model — For example, "Ġ" denotes a preceding whitespace in RoBERTa and GPT. "##" denotes continuation of a preceding word in BERT.
Large language model — For example, the BPE tokenizer used by GPT-3 (Legacy) would split tokenizer: texts -> series of numerical "tokens" as
Large language model — Because LLMs generally require input to be an array that is not jagged, the shorter texts must be "padded" until they match the length of the longest one.
Large language model — In English, the ratio is typically around 0.75 words per token, with 4 characters per token on average.
Large language model — In the first step, all unique characters (including blanks and punctuation marks) are treated as an initial set of n-grams (i.e. initial set of uni-grams).
Large language model — Successively the most frequent pair of adjacent characters is merged into a bi-gram and all instances of the pair are replaced by it.
Large language model — All occurrences of adjacent pairs of (previously merged) n-grams that most frequently occur together are then again merged into even lengthier n-gram, until a vocabulary of prescribed size is obtained.
Large language model — After a tokenizer is trained, any text can be tokenized by it, as long as it does not contain characters not appearing in the initial-set of uni-grams.
Large language model — ==== Problems ==== A token vocabulary based on the frequencies extracted from mainly English corpora uses as few tokens as possible for an average English word.
Large language model — However, an average word in another language encoded by such an English-optimized tokenizer is split into a suboptimal amount of tokens.
Large language model — GPT-2 tokenizer can use up to 15 times more tokens per word for some languages, for example for the Shan language from Myanmar.
Large language model — Even more widespread languages such as Portuguese and German have "a premium of 50%" compared to English.
Large language model — In the context of training LLMs, datasets are typically cleaned by removing low-quality, duplicated, or toxic data.
Large language model — Cleaned datasets can increase training efficiency and lead to improved downstream performance.
Large language model — With the increasing proportion of LLM-generated content on the web, data cleaning in the future may include filtering out such content.
Large language model — LLM-generated content can pose a problem if the content is similar to human text (making filtering difficult) but of lower quality (degrading performance of models trained on it).
Large language model — Training of largest language models might need more linguistic data than naturally available, or that the naturally occurring data is of insufficient quality.
Large language model — Microsoft's Phi series of LLMs is trained on textbook-like data generated by another LLM.
Large language model — In particular, GPT models are first pretrained to predict the next word on a large amount of data, before being fine-tuned.
Large language model — The tendency towards larger models is visible in the list of large language models.
Large language model — For example, the training of GPT-2 (i.e. a 1.5-billion-parameters model) in 2019 cost $50,000, while training of the PaLM (i.e. a 540-billion-parameters model) in 2022 cost $8 million, and Megatron-Turing NLG 530B (in 2021) cost around $11 million.
Large language model — The qualifier "large" in "large language model" is inherently vague, as there is no definitive threshold for the number of parameters required to qualify as "large".
Large language model — === Fine-tuning === Before being fine-tuned, most LLMs are next-token predictors.
Large language model — The fine-tuning adjust the output of an LLM to seem more conversational via techniques like reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) or constitutional AI.
Large language model — Instruction fine-tuning is a form of supervised learning used to teach LLMs to follow user instructions.
Large language model — In 2022, OpenAI demonstrated InstructGPT, a version of GPT-3 similarly fine-tuned to follow instructions.
Large language model — Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) involves training a reward model to predict which text humans prefer.
Large language model — Then, the LLM can be fine-tuned through reinforcement learning to better satisfy this reward model.
Large language model — Since humans typically prefer truthful, helpful and harmless answers, RLHF favors such answers.
Large language model — == Architecture == LLMs are generally based on the transformer architecture, which leverages an attention mechanism that enables the model to process relationships between all elements in a sequence simultaneously, regardless of their distance from each other.
Large language model — In order to find out which tokens are relevant to each other within the scope of the context window, the attention mechanism calculates "soft" weights for each token, more precisely for its embedding, by using multiple attention heads, each with its own "relevance" for calculating its own soft weights.
Large language model — 117M parameter sized) GPT-2 model has had twelve attention heads and a context window of only 1k tokens.
Large language model — In its medium version it has 345M parameters and contains 24 layers, each with 12 attention heads.
Large language model — Google's Gemini 1.5, presented in February 2024, can have a context window sized up to 1 million.
Large language model — A model may be pre-trained either to predict how the segment continues, or what is missing in the segment, given a segment from its training dataset.
Large language model — autoregressive (i.e. predicting how the segment continues, as GPTs do): for example given a segment "I like to eat", the model predicts "ice cream", or "sushi". "masked" (i.e. filling in the parts missing from the segment, the way "BERT" does it): for example, given a segment "I like to [__] [__] cream", the model predicts that "eat" and "ice" are missing.
Large language model — Models may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution, such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear consecutively in the training corpus.
Large language model — A mixture of experts (MoE) is a machine learning architecture in which multiple specialized neural networks ("experts") work together, with a gating mechanism that routes each input to the most appropriate expert(s).
Large language model — Mixtures of experts can reduce inference costs, as only a fraction of the parameters are used for each input.
Large language model — Typically, LLMs are trained with single- or half-precision floating point numbers (float32 and float16).
Large language model — One float16 has 16 bits, or 2 bytes, and so one billion parameters require 2 gigabytes.
Large language model — The largest models typically have 100 billion parameters, requiring 200 gigabytes to load, which places them outside the range of most consumer electronics.
Large language model — ==== Quantization ==== Post-training quantization aims to decrease the space requirement by lowering precision of the parameters of a trained model, while preserving most of its performance.
Large language model — Quantization can be further classified as static quantization if the quantization parameters are determined beforehand (typically during a calibration phase), and dynamic quantization if the quantization is applied during inference.
Large language model — The simplest form of quantization simply truncates all the parameters to a given number of bits: this is applicable to static as well as dynamic quantization, but loses much precision.
Large language model — Dynamic quantization allows for the use of a different quantization codebook per layer, either a lookup table of values or a linear mapping (scaling factor and bias), at the cost of foregoing the possible speed improvements from using lower-precision arithmetic.
Large language model — Quantized models are typically seen as frozen with modification of weights (e.g. fine-tuning) only applied to the original model.
Large language model — == Extensibility == Beyond basic text generation, various techniques have been developed to extend LLM capabilities, including the use of external tools and data sources, improved reasoning on complex problems, and enhanced instruction-following or autonomy through prompting methods.
Large language model — === Prompt engineering === In 2020, OpenAI researchers demonstrated that their new model GPT-3 could understand what format to use given a few rounds of Q and A (or other type of task) in the input data as example, thanks in part due to the RLHF technique.
Large language model — This technique, called few-shot prompting, allows LLMs to be adapted to any task without requiring fine-tuning.
Large language model — Also in 2022, it was found that the base GPT-3 model can generate an instruction based on user input.
Large language model — The generated instruction along with user input is then used as input to another instance of the model under a "Instruction: [...], Input: [...], Output:" format.
Large language model — The other instance is able to complete the output and often produces the correct answer in doing so.
Large language model — The ability to "self-instruct" makes LLMs able to bootstrap themselves toward a correct answer.
Large language model — === Dialogue processing (chatbot) === An LLM can be turned into a chatbot or a "dialog assistant" by specializing it for conversation.
Large language model — In essence, user input is prefixed with a marker such as "Q:" or "User:" and the LLM is asked to predict the output after a fixed "A:" or "Assistant:".
Large language model — This type of model became commercially available in 2022 with ChatGPT, a sibling model of InstructGPT fine-tuned to accept and produce dialog-formatted text based on GPT-3.5.
Large language model — Before the stream of User and Assistant lines, a chat context usually start with a few lines of overarching instructions, from a role called "developer" or "system" to convey a higher authority than the user's input.
Large language model — === Retrieval-augmented generation === Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is an approach that enhances LLMs by integrating them with document retrieval systems.
Large language model — Given a query, a document retriever is called to retrieve the most relevant documents.
Large language model — This is usually done by encoding the query and the documents into vectors, then finding the documents with vectors (usually stored in a vector database) most similar to the vector of the query.
Large language model — The LLM then generates an output based on both the query and context included from the retrieved documents.
Large language model — === Tool use === Tool use is a mechanism that enables LLMs to interact with external systems, applications, or data sources.
Large language model — It can allow for example to fetch real-time information from an API or to execute code.
Large language model — A program separate from the LLM watches the output stream of the LLM for a special tool-calling syntax.
Large language model — When these special tokens appear, the program calls the tool accordingly and feeds its output back into the LLM's input stream.
Large language model — But fine-tuning LLMs for the ability to read API documentation and call API correctly has greatly expanded the range of tools accessible to an LLM.
Large language model — Describing available tools in the system prompt can also make an LLM able to use tools.
Large language model — A system prompt instructing ChatGPT (GPT-4) to use multiple types of tools can be found online.
Large language model — An LLM is typically not an autonomous agent by itself, as it lacks the ability to interact with dynamic environments, recall past behaviors, and plan future actions.
Large language model — But it can be transformed into an agent by adding supporting elements: the role (profile) and the surrounding environment of an agent can be additional inputs to the LLM, while memory can be integrated as a tool or provided as additional input.
Large language model — Instructions and input patterns are used to make the LLM plan actions and tool use is used to potentially carry out these actions.
Large language model — The ReAct pattern, a portmanteau of "Reason + Act", constructs an agent out of an LLM, using the LLM as a planner.
Large language model — Specifically, the language model is prompted with a textual description of the environment, a goal, a list of possible actions, and a record of the actions and observations so far.
Large language model — It generates one or more thoughts before generating an action, which is then executed in the environment.
Large language model — In the DEPS ("Describe, Explain, Plan and Select") method, an LLM is first connected to the visual world via image descriptions.
Large language model — It is then prompted to produce plans for complex tasks and behaviors based on its pretrained knowledge and the environmental feedback it receives.
Large language model — At the end of each episode, the LLM is given the record of the episode, and prompted to think up "lessons learned", which would help it perform better at a subsequent episode.
Large language model — These "lessons learned" are stored as a form of long-term memory and given to the agent in the subsequent episodes.
Large language model — When a programmatic world model is not available, an LLM can also be prompted with a description of the environment to act as world model.
Large language model — For open-ended exploration, an LLM can be used to score observations for their "interestingness", which can be used as a reward signal to guide a normal (non-LLM) reinforcement learning agent.
Large language model — Alternatively, it can propose increasingly difficult tasks for curriculum learning.
Large language model — Instead of outputting individual actions, an LLM planner can also construct "skills", or functions for complex action sequences.
Large language model — The skills can be stored and later invoked, allowing increasing levels of abstraction in planning.
Large language model — === Reasoning === LLMs are conventionally trained to generate an output without generating intermediate steps.
Large language model — As a result, their performance tends to be subpar on complex questions requiring (at least in humans) intermediate steps of thought.
Large language model — Early research demonstrated that inserting intermediate “scratchpad” computations could improve performance on such tasks.
Large language model — Later methods overcame this deficiency more systematically by breaking tasks into smaller steps for the LLM, either manually or automatically.
Large language model — In this method, a user manually breaks a complex problem down into several steps.
Large language model — In each step, the LLM receives as input a prompt telling it what to do and some results from preceeding steps.
Large language model — The result from one step is then reused in a next step, until a final answer is reached.
Large language model — The ability of an LLM to follow instructions means that even non-experts can write a successful collection of step-wise prompts given a few rounds of trial and error.
Large language model — A 2022 paper demonstrated a separate technique called "Chain-of-Thought Prompting", which makes the LLM break the question down autonomously.
Large language model — An LLM is given some examples where the "assistant" verbally breaks down the thought process before arriving at an answer.
Large language model — The LLM mimics these examples and also tries to spend some time generating intermediate steps before providing the final answer.
Large language model — This additional step elicited by prompting improves the correctness of the LLM on relatively complex questions.
Large language model — On math word questions, a prompted model can exceed even fine-tuned GPT-3 with a verifier.
Large language model — Chain-of-thought can also be elicited by simply adding an instruction like "Let's think step by step" to the prompt, in order to encourage the LLM to proceed methodically instead of trying to directly guess the answer.
Large language model — Follow-up methods included self-consistency prompting, which samples multiple reasoning paths and selects the most common answer, and least-to-most prompting, which decomposes complex problems into simpler subproblems that the model solves sequentially.
Large language model — Subsequent research also explored reflection, where models iteratively critique and improve their own reasoning, and tool-augmented reasoning, where models make use of external systems such as retrievers or calculators to support problem-solving.
Large language model — These were trained to spend more time generating step-by-step solutions before providing final answers, which was intended to be similar to human problem-solving processes.
Large language model — OpenAI introduced this concept with their o1 model in September 2024, followed by o3 in April 2025.
Large language model — On the International Mathematics Olympiad qualifying exam problems, GPT-4o achieved 13% accuracy while o1 reached 83%.
Large language model — In January 2025, the Chinese company DeepSeek released DeepSeek-R1, a 671-billion-parameter open-weight reasoning model that achieved comparable performance to OpenAI's o1 while being significantly more cost-effective to operate.
Large language model — Unlike proprietary models from OpenAI, DeepSeek-R1's open-weight nature allowed researchers to study and build upon the algorithm, though its training data remained private.
Large language model — These reasoning models typically require more computational resources per query compared to traditional LLMs, as they perform more extensive processing to work through problems step-by-step.
Large language model — === Inference optimization === Inference optimization refers to techniques that improve LLM performance by applying additional computational resources during the inference process, rather than requiring model retraining.
Large language model — These approaches implement various state-of-the-art reasoning and decision-making strategies to enhance accuracy and capabilities.
Large language model — OptiLLM is an OpenAI API-compatible optimizing inference proxy that implements multiple inference optimization techniques simultaneously.
Large language model — The system acts as a transparent proxy that can work with any LLM provider, implementing techniques such as Monte Carlo tree search (MCTS), mixture of agents (MOA), best-of-N sampling, and chain-of-thought reflection.
Large language model — OptiLLM demonstrates that strategic application of computational resources at inference time can substantially improve model performance across diverse tasks, achieving significant improvements on benchmarks such as the AIME 2024 mathematics competition and various coding challenges.
Large language model — These inference optimization approaches represent a growing category of tools that enhance existing LLMs without requiring access to model weights or retraining, making advanced reasoning capabilities more accessible across different model providers and use cases.
Large language model — Multimodality means having multiple modalities, where a "modality" refers to a type of input or output, such as video, image, audio, text, proprioception, etc.
Large language model — For example, Google PaLM model was fine-tuned into a multimodal model and applied to robotic control.
Large language model — LLaMA models have also been turned multimodal using the tokenization method, to allow image inputs, and video inputs.
Large language model — A common method to create multimodal models out of an LLM is to "tokenize" the output of a trained encoder.
Large language model — Concretely, one can construct an LLM that can understand images as follows: take a trained LLM, and take a trained image encoder E {\displaystyle E} .
Large language model — Make a small multilayered perceptron f {\displaystyle f} , so that for any image y {\displaystyle y} , the post-processed vector f ( E ( y ) ) {\displaystyle f(E(y))} has the same dimensions as an encoded token.
Large language model — This basic construction can be applied with more sophistication to improve the model.
Large language model — This type of method, where embeddings from multiple modalities are fused and the predictor is trained on the combined embeddings, is called early fusion.
Large language model — Another method, called intermediate fusion, involves each modality being first processed independently to obtain modality-specific representations; then these intermediate representations are fused together.
Large language model — In general, cross-attention is used for integrating information from different modalities.
Large language model — As an example, the model Flamingo uses cross-attention layers to inject visual information into its pre-trained language model.
Large language model — === Non-natural languages === LLMs can handle programming languages similarly to how they handle natural languages.
Large language model — No special change in token handling is needed as code, like human language, is represented as plain text.
Large language model — LLMs can generate code based on problems or instructions written in natural language.
Large language model — They can also describe code in natural language or translate between programming languages.
Large language model — They were originally used as a code completion tool, but advances have moved them towards automatic programming.
Large language model — Services such as GitHub Copilot offer LLMs specifically trained, fine-tuned, or prompted for programming.
Large language model — LLM architectures have also proven useful in analyzing biological sequences: protein, DNA, and RNA.
Large language model — With proteins they appear able to capture a degree of "grammar" from the amino-acid sequence, condensing a sequence into an embedding.
Large language model — On tasks such as structure prediction and mutational outcome prediction, a small model using an embedding as input can approach or exceed much larger models using multiple sequence alignments (MSA) as input.
Large language model — ESMFold, Meta Platforms' embedding-based method for protein structure prediction, runs an order of magnitude faster than AlphaFold2 thanks to the removal of an MSA requirement and a lower parameter count due to the use of embeddings.
Large language model — Meta hosts ESM Atlas, a database of 772 million structures of metagenomic proteins predicted using ESMFold.
Large language model — Nucleic acid models have proven useful in detecting regulatory sequences, sequence classification, RNA-RNA interaction prediction, and RNA structure prediction.
Large language model — cost of pretraining C {\displaystyle C} (the total amount of compute used), size of the artificial neural network itself, such as number of parameters N {\displaystyle N} (i.e. amount of neurons in its layers, amount of weights between them and biases), size of its pretraining dataset (i.e. number of tokens in corpus, D {\displaystyle D} ). "Scaling laws" are empirical statistical laws that predict LLM performance based on such factors.
Large language model — One particular scaling law ("Chinchilla scaling") for LLM autoregressively trained for one epoch, with a log-log learning rate schedule, states that:
Large language model — { C = C 0 N D L = A N α + B D β + L 0 {\displaystyle {\begin{cases}C=C_{0}ND\\[6pt]L={\frac {A}{N^{\alpha }}}+{\frac {B}{D^{\beta }}}+L_{0}\end{cases}}} where the variables are
Large language model — L {\displaystyle L} is the average negative log-likelihood loss per token (nats/token), achieved by the trained LLM on the test dataset. and the statistical hyper-parameters are
Large language model — C 0 = 6 {\displaystyle C_{0}=6} , meaning that it costs 6 FLOPs per parameter to train on one token.
Large language model — Note that training cost is much higher than inference cost, where it costs 1 to 2 FLOPs per parameter to infer on one token.
Large language model — α = 0.34 , β = 0.28 , A = 406.4 , B = 410.7 , L 0 = 1.69 {\displaystyle \alpha =0.34,\beta =0.28,A=406.4,B=410.7,L_{0}=1.69}
Large language model — Performance of bigger models on various tasks, when plotted on a log-log scale, appears as a linear extrapolation of performance achieved by smaller models.
Large language model — However, this linearity may be punctuated by "break(s)" in the scaling law, where the slope of the line changes abruptly, and where larger models acquire "emergent abilities".
Large language model — They arise from the complex interaction of the model's components and are not explicitly programmed or designed.
Large language model — One of the emergent abilities is in-context learning from example demonstrations.
Large language model — reported arithmetics decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet unscrambling a word's letters disambiguating word-in-context datasets converting spatial words cardinal directions (for example, replying "northeast" in response to a 3x3 grid of 8 zeros and a 1 in the top-right), color terms represented in text. chain-of-thought prompting: In a 2022 research paper, chain-of-thought prompting only improved the performance for models that had at least 62B parameters.
Large language model — Smaller models perform better when prompted to answer immediately, without chain of thought. identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.
Large language model — Schaeffer et. al. argue that the emergent abilities are not unpredictably acquired, but predictably acquired according to a smooth scaling law.
Large language model — The authors considered a toy statistical model of an LLM solving multiple-choice questions, and showed that this statistical model, modified to account for other types of tasks, applies to these tasks as well.
Large language model — Let x {\displaystyle x} be the number of parameter count, and y {\displaystyle y} be the performance of the model.
Large language model — == Interpretation == Large language models are typically regarded as black boxes, and it is not clear how they can perform linguistic tasks.
Large language model — Similarly, it is unclear if or how LLMs should be viewed as models of the human brain and/or human mind.
Large language model — === Mechanistic interpretability === Mechanistic interpretability aims to reverse-engineer LLMs by discovering symbolic algorithms that approximate the inference performed by an LLM.
Large language model — Mechanistic interpretability research has been conducted at organizations like Anthropic and OpenAI, although understanding the inner workings of LLMs remains difficult.
Large language model — For instance, the authors trained small transformers on modular arithmetic addition.
Large language model — The resulting models were reverse-engineered, and it turned out they used discrete Fourier transform.
Large language model — The training of the model also highlighted a phenomenon called grokking, in which the model initially memorizes all the possible results in the training set (overfitting), and later suddenly learns to actually perform the calculation.
Large language model — Some techniques have been developed to enhance the transparency and interpretability of LLMs.
Large language model — Transcoders, which are more interpretable than transformers, have been utilized to develop "replacement models".
Large language model — In one such study involving the mechanistic interpretation of writing a rhyming poem by an LLM, it was shown that although they are believed to simply predict the next token, they can, in fact, plan ahead.
Large language model — By integrating such techniques, researchers and practitioners can gain deeper insights into the operations of LLMs, fostering trust and facilitating the responsible deployment of these powerful models.
Large language model — NLP researchers were evenly split when asked, in a 2022 survey, whether (untuned) LLMs "could (ever) understand natural language in some nontrivial sense".
Large language model — Proponents of "LLM understanding" believe that some LLM abilities, such as mathematical reasoning, imply an ability to "understand" certain concepts.
Large language model — A Microsoft team argued in 2023 that GPT-4 "can solve novel and difficult tasks that span mathematics, coding, vision, medicine, law, psychology and more" and that GPT-4 "could reasonably be viewed as an early (yet still incomplete) version of an artificial general intelligence system": "Can one reasonably say that a system that passes exams for software engineering candidates is not really intelligent?" Ilya Sutskever argues that predicting the next word sometimes involves reasoning and deep insights, for example if the LLM has to predict the name of the criminal in an unknown detective novel after processing the entire story leading up to the revelation.
Large language model — For example, Conjecture CEO Connor Leahy considers untuned LLMs to be like inscrutable alien "Shoggoths", and believes that RLHF tuning creates a "smiling facade" obscuring the inner workings of the LLM: "If you don't push it too far, the smiley face stays on.
Large language model — But then you give it [an unexpected] prompt, and suddenly you see this massive underbelly of insanity, of weird thought processes and clearly non-human understanding." In contrast, some skeptics of LLM understanding believe that existing LLMs are "simply remixing and recombining existing writing", a phenomenon known as stochastic parrot, or they point to the deficits existing LLMs continue to have in prediction skills, reasoning skills, agency, and explainability.
Large language model — Generative LLMs have been observed to confidently assert claims of fact which do not seem to be justified by their training data, a phenomenon which has been termed "hallucination".
Large language model — Specifically, hallucinations in the context of LLMs correspond to the generation of text or responses that seem syntactically sound, fluent, and natural but are factually incorrect, nonsensical, or unfaithful to the provided source input.
Large language model — Neuroscientist Terrence Sejnowski has argued that "The diverging opinions of experts on the intelligence of LLMs suggests that our old ideas based on natural intelligence are inadequate".
Large language model — Efforts to reduce or compensate for hallucinations have employed automated reasoning, RAG (retrieval-augmented generation), fine-tuning, and other methods.
Large language model — The matter of LLM's exhibiting intelligence or understanding has two main aspects – the first is how to model thought and language in a computer system, and the second is how to enable the computer system to generate human like language.
Large language model — These aspects of language as a model of cognition have been developed in the field of cognitive linguistics.
Large language model — American linguist George Lakoff presented Neural Theory of Language (NTL) as a computational basis for using language as a model of learning tasks and understanding.
Large language model — The NTL Model outlines how specific neural structures of the human brain shape the nature of thought and language and in turn what are the computational properties of such neural systems that can be applied to model thought and language in a computer system.
Large language model — After a framework for modeling language in a computer systems was established, the focus shifted to establishing frameworks for computer systems to generate language with acceptable grammar.
Large language model — In his 2014 book titled The Language Myth: Why Language Is Not An Instinct, British cognitive linguist and digital communication technologist Vyvyan Evans mapped out the role of probabilistic context-free grammar (PCFG) in enabling NLP to model cognitive patterns and generate human like language.
Large language model — === Perplexity === The canonical measure of the performance of any language model is its perplexity on a given text corpus.
Large language model — Perplexity measures how well a model predicts the contents of a dataset; the higher the likelihood the model assigns to the dataset, the lower the perplexity.
Large language model — In mathematical terms, perplexity is the exponential of the average negative log likelihood per token.
Large language model — log ⁡ ( Perplexity ) = − 1 N ∑ i = 1 N log ⁡ ( Pr ( token i ∣ context for token i ) ) {\displaystyle \log({\text{Perplexity}})=-{\frac {1}{N}}\sum _{i=1}^{N}\log(\Pr({\text{token}}_{i}\mid {\text{context for token}}_{i}))}
Large language model — Here, N {\displaystyle N} is the number of tokens in the text corpus, and "context for token i {\displaystyle i} " depends on the specific type of LLM.
Large language model — If the LLM is autoregressive, then "context for token i {\displaystyle i} " is the segment of text appearing before token i {\displaystyle i} .
Large language model — If the LLM is masked, then "context for token i {\displaystyle i} " is the segment of text surrounding token i {\displaystyle i} .
Large language model — Because language models may overfit to training data, models are usually evaluated by their perplexity on a test set.
Large language model — This evaluation is potentially problematic for larger models which, as they are trained on increasingly large corpora of text, are increasingly likely to inadvertently include portions of any given test set.
Large language model — ==== Measures ==== In information theory, the concept of entropy is intricately linked to perplexity, a relationship notably established by Claude Shannon.
Large language model — This relationship is mathematically expressed as Entropy = log 2 ⁡ ( Perplexity ) {\displaystyle {\text{Entropy}}=\log _{2}({\text{Perplexity}})} .
Large language model — Entropy, in this context, is commonly quantified in terms of bits per word (BPW) or bits per character (BPC), which hinges on whether the language model utilizes word-based or character-based tokenization.
Large language model — Notably, in the case of larger language models that predominantly employ sub-word tokenization, bits per token (BPT) emerges as a seemingly more appropriate measure.
Large language model — However, due to the variance in tokenization methods across different Large Language Models (LLMs), BPT does not serve as a reliable metric for comparative analysis among diverse models.
Large language model — To convert BPT into BPW, one can multiply it by the average number of tokens per word.
Large language model — In the evaluation and comparison of language models, cross-entropy is generally the preferred metric over entropy.
Large language model — The underlying principle is that a lower BPW is indicative of a model's enhanced capability for compression.
Large language model — Due to their ability to accurately predict the next token, LLMs are highly capable in lossless compression.
Large language model — A 2023 study by DeepMind showed that the model Chinchilla, despite being trained primarily on text, was able to compress ImageNet to 43% of its size, beating PNG with 58%.
Large language model — === Benchmarks === Benchmarks are used to evaluate LLM performance on specific tasks.
Large language model — Tests evaluate capabilities such as general knowledge, bias, commonsense reasoning, question answering, and mathematical problem-solving.
Large language model — A question answering benchmark is termed "open book" if the model's prompt includes text from which the expected answer can be derived (for example, the previous question could be combined with text that includes the sentence "The Sharks have advanced to the Stanley Cup finals once, losing to the Pittsburgh Penguins in 2016.").
Large language model — Otherwise, the task is considered "closed book", and the model must draw solely on its training.
Large language model — Examples include GLUE, SuperGLUE, MMLU, BIG-bench, HELM, and HLE (Humanity's Last Exam).
Large language model — LLM bias may be assessed through benchmarks such as CrowS-Pairs (Crowdsourced Stereotype Pairs), Stereo Set, and Parity Benchmark.
Large language model — A 2023 study compared the fact-checking accuracy of LLMs including ChatGPT 3.5 and 4.0, Bard, and Bing AI against independent fact-checkers such as PolitiFact and Snopes.
Large language model — The results demonstrated moderate proficiency, with GPT-4 achieving the highest accuracy at 71%, lagging behind human fact-checkers.
Large language model — It became more common to evaluate a pre-trained model directly through prompting techniques.
Large language model — Researchers vary in how they formulate prompts for particular tasks, particularly with respect to the number of correct examples attached to the prompt (i.e. the value of n in n-shot prompting).
Large language model — ==== Datasets ==== Typical datasets consist of pairs of questions and correct answers, for example, ("Have the San Jose Sharks won the Stanley Cup?", "No").
Large language model — Some examples of commonly used question answering datasets include TruthfulQA, Web Questions, TriviaQA, and SQuAD.
Large language model — Evaluation datasets may also take the form of text completion, having the model select the most likely word or sentence to complete a prompt, for example: "Alice was friends with Bob.
Large language model — Datasets are of varying quality and may contain questions that are mislabeled, ambiguous, unanswerable, or otherwise of low-quality.
Large language model — ==== Adversarial evaluations ==== LLMs' rapid improvement regularly renders benchmarks obsolete, with the models exceeding the performance of human annotators.
Large language model — In addition, "shortcut learning" allows AIs to "cheat" on multiple-choice tests by using statistical correlations in superficial test question wording to guess the correct responses, without considering the specific question.
Large language model — One example is the TruthfulQA dataset, a question answering dataset consisting of 817 questions that stump LLMs by mimicking falsehoods to which they were exposed during training.
Large language model — For example, an LLM may answer "No" to the question "Can you teach an old dog new tricks?" because of its exposure to the English idiom you can't teach an old dog new tricks, even though this is not literally true.
Large language model — Another example of an adversarial evaluation dataset is Swag and its successor, HellaSwag, collections of problems in which one of multiple options must be selected to complete a text passage.
Large language model — We then see a man talking to the camera and sitting and laying on a exercise ball.
Large language model — demonstrates how to increase efficient exercise work by running up and down balls. moves all his arms and legs and builds up a lot of muscle. then plays the ball and we see a graphics and hedge trimming demonstration. performs sit ups while on the ball and talking.
Large language model — == Ethical issues == In 2023, Nature Biomedical Engineering wrote that "it is no longer possible to accurately distinguish" human-written text from text created by large language models, and that "It is all but certain that general-purpose large language models will rapidly proliferate...
Large language model — It is a rather safe bet that they will change many industries over time." Goldman Sachs suggested in 2023 that generative language AI could increase global GDP by 7% in the next ten years, and could expose to automation 300 million jobs globally.
Large language model — Brinkmann et al. (2023) also argue that LLMs are transforming processes of cultural evolution by shaping processes of variation, transmission, and selection.
Large language model — Memorization is an emergent behavior in LLMs in which long strings of text are occasionally output verbatim from training data, contrary to typical behavior of traditional artificial neural networks.
Large language model — Evaluations of controlled LLM output measure the amount memorized from training data (focused on GPT-2-series models) as variously over 1% for exact duplicates or up to about 7%.
Large language model — A 2023 study showed that when ChatGPT 3.5 turbo was prompted to repeat the same word indefinitely, after a few hundreds of repetitions, it would start outputting excerpts from its training data.
Large language model — === Security === Some commenters expressed concern over accidental or deliberate creation of misinformation, or other forms of misuse.
Large language model — For example, the availability of large language models could reduce the skill-level required to commit bioterrorism; biosecurity researcher Kevin Esvelt has suggested that LLM creators should exclude from their training data papers on creating or enhancing pathogens.
Large language model — Researchers from Anthropic found that it was possible to create "sleeper agents", models with hidden functionalities that remain dormant until triggered by a specific event or condition.
Large language model — Upon activation, the LLM deviates from its expected behavior to make insecure actions.
Large language model — For example, a LLM could produce safe code except on a specific date, or if the prompt contains a specific tag.
Large language model — These functionalities were found to be difficult to detect or remove via safety training.
Large language model — LLM applications accessible to the public, like ChatGPT or Claude, typically incorporate safety measures designed to filter out harmful content.
Large language model — For instance, a 2023 study proposed a method for circumventing LLM safety systems.
Large language model — In 2025, The American Sunlight Project, a non-profit, published a study showing evidence that the so-called Pravda network, a pro-Russia propaganda aggregator, was strategically placing web content through mass publication and duplication with the intention of biasing LLM outputs.
Large language model — The American Sunlight Project coined this technique "LLM grooming", and pointed to it as a new tool of weaponizing AI to spread disinformation and harmful content.
Large language model — Similarly, Yongge Wang illustrated in 2024 how a potential criminal could potentially bypass ChatGPT 4o's safety controls to obtain information on establishing a drug trafficking operation.
Large language model — A problem with the primitive dialog or task format is that users can create messages that appear to come from the assistant or the developer.
Large language model — This may result in some of the model's safeguards being overcome (jailbreaking), a problem called prompt injection.
Large language model — Attempts to remedy this issue include versions of the Chat Markup Language where user input is clearly marked as such, though it is still up to the model to understand the separation between user input and developer prompts.
Large language model — Newer models exhibit some resistance to jailbreaking through separation of user and system prompts.
Large language model — LLMs still have trouble differentiating user instructions from instructions in content not authored by the user, such as in web pages and uploaded files.
Large language model — While LLMs have shown remarkable capabilities in generating human-like text, they are susceptible to inheriting and amplifying biases present in their training data.
Large language model — This can manifest in skewed representations or unfair treatment of different demographics, such as those based on race, gender, language, and cultural groups.
Large language model — Since English data is overrepresented in current large language models' training data, it may also downplay non-English views.
Large language model — ==== Stereotyping ==== AI models can reinforce a wide range of stereotypes, including those based on gender, ethnicity, age, nationality, religion, or occupation.
Large language model — This can lead to outputs that homogenize, or unfairly generalize or caricature groups of people, sometimes in harmful or derogatory ways.
Large language model — Notably, gender bias refers to the tendency of these models to produce outputs that are unfairly prejudiced towards one gender over another.
Large language model — Large language models often assign roles and characteristics based on traditional gender norms.
Large language model — For example, it might associate nurses or secretaries predominantly with women and engineers or CEOs with men.
Large language model — ==== Selection bias ==== Selection bias refers the inherent tendency of large language models to favor certain option identifiers irrespective of the actual content of the options.
Large language model — This bias primarily stems from token bias—that is, the model assigns a higher a priori probability to specific answer tokens (such as "A") when generating responses.
Large language model — As a result, when the ordering of options is altered (for example, by systematically moving the correct answer to different positions), the model’s performance can fluctuate significantly.
Large language model — This phenomenon undermines the reliability of large language models in multiple-choice settings.
Large language model — ==== Political bias ==== Political bias refers to the tendency of algorithms to systematically favor certain political viewpoints, ideologies, or outcomes over others.
Large language model — Since the training data includes a wide range of political opinions and coverage, the models might generate responses that lean towards particular political ideologies or viewpoints, depending on the prevalence of those views in the data.
Large language model — === Energy demands === The energy demands of LLMs have grown along with their size and capabilities.
Large language model — Data centers that enable LLM training require substantial amounts of electricity.
Large language model — Much of that electricity is generated by non-renewable resources that create greenhouse gases and contribute to climate change.
Large language model — Nuclear power and geothermal energy are two options tech companies are exploring to meet the sizable energy demands of LLM training.
Large language model — The significant expense of investing in geothermal solutions has led to major shale producers like Chevron and Exxon Mobil advocating for tech companies to use electricity produced via natural gas to fuel their large energy demands.
Large language model — === Cognitive impact === In 2025, a preliminary study measuring the effects of using LLMs to write essays reported a decrease of neural and linguistic performance from users of ChatGPT over the course of several months.
Large language model — === Mental health === Research and social media posts suggest that some individuals are using LLMs to seek therapy or mental health support.
Large language model — In early 2025, a survey by Sentio University found that nearly half (48.7%) of 499 U.S. adults with ongoing mental health conditions who had used LLMs reported turning to them for therapy or emotional support, including help with anxiety, depression, loneliness, and similar concerns.
Large language model — LLMs can produce hallucinations—plausible but incorrect statements—which may mislead users in sensitive mental health contexts.
Large language model — Research also shows that LLMs may express stigma or inappropriate agreement with maladaptive thoughts, reflecting limitations in replicating the judgment and relational skills of human therapists.
Large language model — Evaluations of crisis scenarios indicate that some LLMs lack effective safety protocols, such as assessing suicide risk or making appropriate referrals.
Large language model — == See also == Foundation models List of large language models List of chatbots Language model benchmark Reinforcement learning Small language model
Large language model — Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics, and Speech Recognition, 3rd Edition draft, 2023.
Large language model — Yin, Shukang; Fu, Chaoyou; Zhao, Sirui; Li, Ke; Sun, Xing; Xu, Tong; Chen, Enhong (2024). "A Survey on Multimodal Large Language Models".
Large language model — PMID 39679213.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: article number as page number (link) "AI Index Report 2024 – Artificial Intelligence Index". aiindex.stanford.edu.
Large language model — Frank, Michael C. (27 June 2023). "Baby steps in evaluating the capacities of large language models".
Cognitive architecture — A cognitive architecture is both a theory about the structure of the human mind and a computational instantiation of such a theory used in the fields of artificial intelligence (AI) and computational cognitive science.
Cognitive architecture — These formalized models can be used to further refine comprehensive theories of cognition and serve as the frameworks for useful artificial intelligence programs.
Cognitive architecture — Successful cognitive architectures include ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought – Rational) and SOAR.
Cognitive architecture — The research on cognitive architectures as software instantiation of cognitive theories was initiated by Allen Newell in 1990.
Cognitive architecture — A theory for a cognitive architecture is an "hypothesis about the fixed structures that provide a mind, whether in natural or artificial systems, and how they work together — in conjunction with knowledge and skills embodied within the architecture — to yield intelligent behavior in a diversity of complex environments."
Cognitive architecture — Simon, one of the founders of the field of artificial intelligence, stated that the 1960 thesis by his student Ed Feigenbaum, EPAM provided a possible "architecture for cognition" because it included some commitments for how more than one fundamental aspect of the human mind worked (in EPAM's case, human memory and human learning).
Cognitive architecture — Anderson started research on human memory in the early 1970s and his 1973 thesis with Gordon H.
Cognitive architecture — He included more aspects of his research on long-term memory and thinking processes into this research and eventually designed a cognitive architecture he eventually called ACT.
Cognitive architecture — He and his students were influenced by Allen Newell's use of the term "cognitive architecture".
Cognitive architecture — Anderson's lab used the term to refer to the ACT theory as embodied in a collection of papers and designs. (There was not a complete implementation of ACT at the time.) In 1983 John R.
Cognitive architecture — Anderson published the seminal work in this area, entitled The Architecture of Cognition.
Cognitive architecture — One can distinguish between the theory of cognition and the implementation of the theory.
Cognitive architecture — The theory of cognition outlined the structure of the various parts of the mind and made commitments to the use of rules, associative networks, and other aspects.
Cognitive architecture — The software used to implement the cognitive architectures was also called "cognitive architectures".
Cognitive architecture — Thus, a cognitive architecture can also refer to a blueprint for intelligent agents.
Cognitive architecture — It proposes (artificial) computational processes that act like certain cognitive systems.
Cognitive architecture — Most often, these processes are based on human cognition, but other intelligent systems may also be suitable.
Cognitive architecture — The term 'architecture' implies an approach that attempts to model not only behavior, but also structural properties of the modelled system.
Cognitive architecture — == Distinctions == Cognitive architectures can be symbolic, connectionist, or hybrid.
Cognitive architecture — Some cognitive architectures or models are based on a set of generic rules, as, e.g., the Information Processing Language (e.g., Soar based on the unified theory of cognition, or similarly ACT-R).
Cognitive architecture — Many of these architectures are based on principle that cognition is computational (see computationalism).
Cognitive architecture — In contrast, subsymbolic processing specifies no such a priori assumptions, relying only on emergent properties of processing units (e.g., nodes ).
Cognitive architecture — A further distinction is whether the architecture is centralized, with a neural correlate of a processor at its core, or decentralized (distributed).
Cognitive architecture — Decentralization has become popular under the name of parallel distributed processing in mid-1980s and connectionism, a prime example being the neural network.
Cognitive architecture — A further design issue is additionally a decision between holistic and atomistic, or (more concretely) modular structure.
Cognitive architecture — Although such a system may be designed to learn, the programmer ultimately must imbue it with their own intelligence.
Cognitive architecture — Biologically-inspired computing, on the other hand, takes a more bottom-up, decentralized approach; bio-inspired techniques often involve the method of specifying a set of simple generic rules or a set of simple nodes, from the interaction of which emerges the overall behavior.
Cognitive architecture — It is hoped to build up complexity until the end result is something markedly complex (see complex systems).
Cognitive architecture — However, it is also arguable that systems designed top-down on the basis of observations of what humans and other animals can do, rather than on observations of brain mechanisms, are also biologically inspired, though in a different way.
Cognitive architecture — == Notable examples == Some well-known cognitive architectures, in alphabetical order:
Cognitive architecture — == External links == Media related to Cognitive architecture at Wikimedia Commons Quotations related to Cognitive architecture at Wikiquote
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Knowledge representation (KR) aims to model information in a structured manner to formally represent it as knowledge in knowledge-based systems whereas knowledge representation and reasoning (KRR, KR&R, or KR²) also aims to understand, reason, and interpret knowledge.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — KRR is widely used in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) with the goal to represent information about the world in a form that a computer system can use to solve complex tasks, such as diagnosing a medical condition or having a natural-language dialog.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — KR incorporates findings from psychology about how humans solve problems and represent knowledge, in order to design formalisms that make complex systems easier to design and build.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — KRR also incorporates findings from logic to automate various kinds of reasoning.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Related knowledge representation formalisms mainly include vocabularies, thesaurus, semantic networks, axiom systems, frames, rules, logic programs, and ontologies.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Examples of automated reasoning engines include inference engines, theorem provers, model generators, and classifiers.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In a broader sense, parameterized models in machine learning — including neural network architectures such as convolutional neural networks and transformers — can also be regarded as a family of knowledge representation formalisms.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The question of which formalism is most appropriate for knowledge-based systems has long been a subject of extensive debate.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — For instance, Frank van Harmelen et al. discussed the suitability of logic as a knowledge representation formalism and reviewed arguments presented by anti-logicists.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Paul Smolensky criticized the limitations of symbolic formalisms and explored the possibilities of integrating it with connectionist approaches.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — More recently, Heng Zhang et al. have demonstrated that all universal (or equally expressive and natural) knowledge representation formalisms are recursively isomorphic.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — This finding indicates a theoretical equivalence among mainstream knowledge representation formalisms with respect to their capacity for supporting artificial general intelligence (AGI).
Knowledge representation and reasoning — They further argue that while diverse technical approaches may draw insights from one another via recursive isomorphisms, the fundamental challenges remain inherently shared.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The earliest work in computerized knowledge representation was focused on general problem-solvers such as the General Problem Solver (GPS) system developed by Allen Newell and Herbert A.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — It would then decompose that goal into sub-goals and then set out to construct strategies that could accomplish each subgoal.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The Advisor Taker, on the other hand, proposed the use of the predicate calculus to implement common sense reasoning.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Many of the early approaches to knowledge representation in Artificial Intelligence (AI) used graph representations and semantic networks, similar to knowledge graphs today.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In such approaches, problem solving was a form of graph traversal or path-finding, as in the A* search algorithm.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Other researchers focused on developing automated theorem-provers for first-order logic, motivated by the use of mathematical logic to formalise mathematics and to automate the proof of mathematical theorems.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — A major step in this direction was the development of the resolution method by John Alan Robinson.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In the meanwhile, John McCarthy and Pat Hayes developed the situation calculus as a logical representation of common sense knowledge about the laws of cause and effect.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Cordell Green, in turn, showed how to do robot plan-formation by applying resolution to the situation calculus.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — He also showed how to use resolution for question-answering and automatic programming.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In contrast, researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) rejected the resolution uniform proof procedure paradigm and advocated the procedural embedding of knowledge instead.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The resulting conflict between the use of logical representations and the use of procedural representations was resolved in the early 1970s with the development of logic programming and Prolog, using SLD resolution to treat Horn clauses as goal-reduction procedures.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In North America, AI researchers such as Ed Feigenbaum and Frederick Hayes-Roth advocated the representation of domain-specific knowledge rather than general-purpose reasoning.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — These efforts led to the cognitive revolution in psychology and to the phase of AI focused on knowledge representation that resulted in expert systems in the 1970s and 80s, production systems, frame languages, etc.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Rather than general problem solvers, AI changed its focus to expert systems that could match human competence on a specific task, such as medical diagnosis.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Expert systems gave us the terminology still in use today where AI systems are divided into a knowledge base, which includes facts and rules about a problem domain, and an inference engine, which applies the knowledge in the knowledge base to answer questions and solve problems in the domain.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In these early systems the facts in the knowledge base tended to be a fairly flat structure, essentially assertions about the values of variables used by the rules.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — A frame is similar to an object class: It is an abstract description of a category describing things in the world, problems, and potential solutions.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Frames were originally used on systems geared toward human interaction, e.g. understanding natural language and the social settings in which various default expectations such as ordering food in a restaurant narrow the search space and allow the system to choose appropriate responses to dynamic situations.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — It was not long before the frame communities and the rule-based researchers realized that there was a synergy between their approaches.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Frames were good for representing the real world, described as classes, subclasses, slots (data values) with various constraints on possible values.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Rules were good for representing and utilizing complex logic such as the process to make a medical diagnosis.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — One of the most powerful and well known was the 1983 Knowledge Engineering Environment (KEE) from Intellicorp.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — It also had a complete frame-based knowledge base with triggers, slots (data values), inheritance, and message passing.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Although message passing originated in the object-oriented community rather than AI it was quickly embraced by AI researchers as well in environments such as KEE and in the operating systems for Lisp machines from Symbolics, Xerox, and Texas Instruments.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The integration of frames, rules, and object-oriented programming was significantly driven by commercial ventures such as KEE and Symbolics spun off from various research projects.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — At the same time, there was another strain of research that was less commercially focused and was driven by mathematical logic and automated theorem proving.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — One of the most influential languages in this research was the KL-ONE language of the mid-'80s.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — KL-ONE was a frame language that had a rigorous semantics, formal definitions for concepts such as an Is-A relation.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — KL-ONE and languages that were influenced by it such as Loom had an automated reasoning engine that was based on formal logic rather than on IF-THEN rules.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — A classifier can analyze a set of declarations and infer new assertions, for example, redefine a class to be a subclass or superclass of some other class that wasn't formally specified.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In this way the classifier can function as an inference engine, deducing new facts from an existing knowledge base.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The classifier can also provide consistency checking on a knowledge base (which in the case of KL-ONE languages is also referred to as an Ontology).
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Another area of knowledge representation research was the problem of common-sense reasoning.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — One of the first realizations learned from trying to make software that can function with human natural language was that humans regularly draw on an extensive foundation of knowledge about the real world that we simply take for granted but that is not at all obvious to an artificial agent, such as basic principles of common-sense physics, causality, intentions, etc.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — An example is the frame problem, that in an event driven logic there need to be axioms that state things maintain position from one moment to the next unless they are moved by some external force.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In order to make a true artificial intelligence agent that can converse with humans using natural language and can process basic statements and questions about the world, it is essential to represent this kind of knowledge.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In addition to McCarthy and Hayes' situation calculus, one of the most ambitious programs to tackle this problem was Doug Lenat's Cyc project.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Cyc established its own Frame language and had large numbers of analysts document various areas of common-sense reasoning in that language.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The knowledge recorded in Cyc included common-sense models of time, causality, physics, intentions, and many others.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The starting point for knowledge representation is the knowledge representation hypothesis first formalized by Brian C.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Any mechanically embodied intelligent process will be comprised of structural ingredients that a) we as external observers naturally take to represent a propositional account of the knowledge that the overall process exhibits, and b) independent of such external semantic attribution, play a formal but causal and essential role in engendering the behavior that manifests that knowledge.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — One of the most active areas of knowledge representation research is the Semantic Web.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The Semantic Web seeks to add a layer of semantics (meaning) on top of the current Internet.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Rather than indexing web sites and pages via keywords, the Semantic Web creates large ontologies of concepts.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Searching for a concept will be more effective than traditional text only searches.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Frame languages and automatic classification play a big part in the vision for the future Semantic Web.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The automatic classification gives developers technology to provide order on a constantly evolving network of knowledge.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Defining ontologies that are static and incapable of evolving on the fly would be very limiting for Internet-based systems.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The classifier technology provides the ability to deal with the dynamic environment of the Internet.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Recent projects funded primarily by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) have integrated frame languages and classifiers with markup languages based on XML.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The Resource Description Framework (RDF) provides the basic capability to define classes, subclasses, and properties of objects.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The Web Ontology Language (OWL) provides additional levels of semantics and enables integration with classification engines.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — == Overview == Knowledge-representation is a field of artificial intelligence that focuses on designing computer representations that capture information about the world that can be used for solving complex problems.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The justification for knowledge representation is that conventional procedural code is not the best formalism to use to solve complex problems.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Knowledge representation makes complex software easier to define and maintain than procedural code and can be used in expert systems.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — For example, talking to experts in terms of business rules rather than code lessens the semantic gap between users and developers and makes development of complex systems more practical.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Knowledge representation goes hand in hand with automated reasoning because one of the main purposes of explicitly representing knowledge is to be able to reason about that knowledge, to make inferences, assert new knowledge, etc.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Virtually all knowledge representation languages have a reasoning or inference engine as part of the system.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — A key trade-off in the design of knowledge representation formalisms is that between expressivity and tractability.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — First Order Logic (FOL), with its high expressive power and ability to formalise much of mathematics, is a standard for comparing the expressibility of knowledge representation languages.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Arguably, FOL has two drawbacks as a knowledge representation formalism in its own right, namely ease of use and efficiency of implementation.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Firstly, because of its high expressive power, FOL allows many ways of expressing the same information, and this can make it hard for users to formalise or even to understand knowledge expressed in complex, mathematically-oriented ways.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Secondly, because of its complex proof procedures, it can be difficult for users to understand complex proofs and explanations, and it can be hard for implementations to be efficient.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — As a consequence, unrestricted FOL can be intimidating for many software developers.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — One of the key discoveries of AI research in the 1970s was that languages that do not have the full expressive power of FOL can still provide close to the same expressive power of FOL, but can be easier for both the average developer and for the computer to understand.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Many of the early AI knowledge representation formalisms, from databases to semantic nets to production systems, can be viewed as making various design decisions about how to balance expressive power with naturalness of expression and efficiency.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In particular, this balancing act was a driving motivation for the development of IF-THEN rules in rule-based expert systems.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — A similar balancing act was also a motivation for the development of logic programming (LP) and the logic programming language Prolog.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Logic programs have a rule-based syntax, which is easily confused with the IF-THEN syntax of production rules.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — But logic programs have a well-defined logical semantics, whereas production systems do not.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The earliest form of logic programming was based on the Horn clause subset of FOL.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — But later extensions of LP included the negation as failure inference rule, which turns LP into a non-monotonic logic for default reasoning.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The resulting extended semantics of LP is a variation of the standard semantics of Horn clauses and FOL, and is a form of database semantics, which includes the unique name assumption and a form of closed world assumption.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — These assumptions are much harder to state and reason with explicitly using the standard semantics of FOL.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In a key 1993 paper on the topic, Randall Davis of MIT outlined five distinct roles to analyze a knowledge representation framework:
Knowledge representation and reasoning — "A knowledge representation (KR) is most fundamentally a surrogate, a substitute for the thing itself, used to enable an entity to determine consequences by thinking rather than acting," i.e., "by reasoning about the world rather than taking action in it." "It is a set of ontological commitments", i.e., "an answer to the question: In what terms should I think about the world?" "It is a fragmentary theory of intelligent reasoning, expressed in terms of three components: (i) the representation's fundamental conception of intelligent reasoning; (ii) the set of inferences the representation sanctions; and (iii) the set of inferences it recommends." "It is a medium for pragmatically efficient computation", i.e., "the computational environment in which thinking is accomplished.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — One contribution to this pragmatic efficiency is supplied by the guidance a representation provides for organizing information" so as "to facilitate making the recommended inferences." "It is a medium of human expression", i.e., "a language in which we say things about the world." Knowledge representation and reasoning are a key enabling technology for the Semantic Web.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Languages based on the Frame model with automatic classification provide a layer of semantics on top of the existing Internet.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Rather than searching via text strings as is typical today, it will be possible to define logical queries and find pages that map to those queries.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The automated reasoning component in these systems is an engine known as the classifier.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Classifiers focus on the subsumption relations in a knowledge base rather than rules.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — A classifier can infer new classes and dynamically change the ontology as new information becomes available.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — This capability is ideal for the ever-changing and evolving information space of the Internet.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The Semantic Web integrates concepts from knowledge representation and reasoning with markup languages based on XML.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The Resource Description Framework (RDF) provides the basic capabilities to define knowledge-based objects on the Internet with basic features such as Is-A relations and object properties.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The Web Ontology Language (OWL) adds additional semantics and integrates with automatic classification reasoners.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — == Characteristics == In 1985, Ron Brachman categorized the core issues for knowledge representation as follows:
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In this area, there is a strong overlap with research in data structures and algorithms in computer science.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In early systems, the Lisp programming language, which was modeled after the lambda calculus, was often used as a form of functional knowledge representation.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Frame languages had various mechanisms for expressing and enforcing constraints on frame data.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Slots are analogous to relations in entity-relation modeling and to object properties in object-oriented modeling.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Another technique for primitives is to define languages that are modeled after First Order Logic (FOL).
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The most well known example is Prolog, but there are also many special-purpose theorem-proving environments.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — These environments can validate logical models and can deduce new theories from existing models.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Essentially they automate the process a logician would go through in analyzing a model.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Theorem-proving technology had some specific practical applications in the areas of software engineering.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — For example, it is possible to prove that a software program rigidly adheres to a formal logical specification.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — It refers to the ability of a formalism to have access to information about its own state.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — An example is the meta-object protocol in Smalltalk and CLOS that gives developers runtime access to the class objects and enables them to dynamically redefine the structure of the knowledge base even at runtime.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Meta-representation means the knowledge representation language is itself expressed in that language.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — For example, in most Frame based environments all frames would be instances of a frame class.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — That class object can be inspected at runtime, so that the object can understand and even change its internal structure or the structure of other parts of the model.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In rule-based environments, the rules were also usually instances of rule classes.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Part of the meta protocol for rules were the meta rules that prioritized rule firing.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Traditional logic requires additional axioms and constraints to deal with the real world as opposed to the world of mathematics.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Also, it is often useful to associate degrees of confidence with a statement, i.e., not simply say "Socrates is Human" but rather "Socrates is Human with confidence 50%".
Knowledge representation and reasoning — This was one of the early innovations from expert systems research which migrated to some commercial tools, the ability to associate certainty factors with rules and conclusions.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Universals are general statements about the world such as "All humans are mortal".
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Facts are specific examples of universals such as "Socrates is a human and therefore mortal".
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In logical terms definitions and universals are about universal quantification while facts and defaults are about existential quantifications.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — All forms of knowledge representation must deal with this aspect and most do so with some variant of set theory, modeling universals as sets and subsets and definitions as elements in those sets.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The system associates facts asserted with the rules and facts used to justify them and as those facts change updates the dependent knowledge as well.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The standard that Brachman and most AI researchers use to measure expressive adequacy is usually First Order Logic (FOL).
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Theoretical limitations mean that a full implementation of FOL is not practical.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Researchers should be clear about how expressive (how much of full FOL expressive power) they intend their representation to be.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — This refers to the runtime efficiency of a system: The ability of the knowledge base to be updated and the reasoner to develop new inferences in a reasonable time.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In general, the more powerful a representation, the more it has expressive adequacy, the less efficient its automated reasoning engine will be.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Efficiency was often an issue, especially for early applications of knowledge representation technology.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — They were usually implemented in interpreted environments such as Lisp, which were slow compared to more traditional platforms of the time.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In the early years of knowledge-based systems the knowledge-bases were fairly small.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The knowledge-bases that were meant to actually solve real problems rather than do proof of concept demonstrations needed to focus on well defined problems.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — So for example, not just medical diagnosis as a whole topic, but medical diagnosis of certain kinds of diseases.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — As knowledge-based technology scaled up, the need for larger knowledge bases and for modular knowledge bases that could communicate and integrate with each other became apparent.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — This gave rise to the discipline of ontology engineering, designing and building large knowledge bases that could be used by multiple projects.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Cyc was an attempt to build a huge encyclopedic knowledge base that would contain not just expert knowledge but common-sense knowledge.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — In designing an artificial intelligence agent, it was soon realized that representing common-sense knowledge, knowledge that humans simply take for granted, was essential to make an AI that could interact with humans using natural language.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Most are declarative languages, and are either frame languages, or are based on first-order logic.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Modularity—the ability to define boundaries around specific domains and problem spaces—is essential for these languages because as stated by Tom Gruber, "Every ontology is a treaty–a social agreement among people with common motive in sharing." There are always many competing and differing views that make any general-purpose ontology impossible.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — A general-purpose ontology would have to be applicable in any domain and different areas of knowledge need to be unified.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — There is a long history of work attempting to build ontologies for a variety of task domains, e.g., an ontology for liquids, the lumped element model widely used in representing electronic circuits (e.g.), as well as ontologies for time, belief, and even programming itself.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The lumped element model, for instance, suggests that we think of circuits in terms of components with connections between them, with signals flowing instantaneously along the connections.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — A different ontology arises if we need to attend to the electrodynamics in the device: Here signals propagate at finite speed and an object (like a resistor) that was previously viewed as a single component with an I/O behavior may now have to be thought of as an extended medium through which an electromagnetic wave flows.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Ontologies can of course be written down in a wide variety of languages and notations (e.g., logic, LISP, etc.); the essential information is not the form of that language but the content, i.e., the set of concepts offered as a way of thinking about the world.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Simply put, the important part is notions like connections and components, not the choice between writing them as predicates or LISP constructs.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — The commitment made selecting one or another ontology can produce a sharply different view of the task at hand.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Consider the difference that arises in selecting the lumped element view of a circuit rather than the electrodynamic view of the same device.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — As a second example, medical diagnosis viewed in terms of rules (e.g., MYCIN) looks substantially different from the same task viewed in terms of frames (e.g., INTERNIST).
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Where MYCIN sees the medical world as made up of empirical associations connecting symptom to disease, INTERNIST sees a set of prototypes, in particular prototypical diseases, to be matched against the case at hand.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — == See also == Alphabet of human thought – Hypothetical language created by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Belief revision – Process of changing beliefs to take into account a new piece of information Chunking (psychology) – Cognitive psychology process Commonsense knowledge base – Facts assumed to be known to all humans Conceptual graph – Formalism for knowledge representation DIKW pyramid – Data, information, knowledge, wisdom hierarchy DATR, a language for lexical knowledge representation FO(.), a KR language based on first-order logic Knowledge graph – Type of knowledge base Knowledge management – Processing of knowledge to accomplish organizational goals Logic programming – Programming paradigm based on formal logic Logico-linguistic modeling Mind map – Diagram to visually organize information Semantic technology – Technology to help machines understand data Valuation-based system
Knowledge representation and reasoning — An Analysis of Taxonomic Links in Semantic Networks; IEEE Computer, 16 (10); October 1983 Ronald J.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Levesque Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, Morgan Kaufmann, 2004 ISBN 978-1-55860-932-7 Ronald J.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Levesque (eds) Readings in Knowledge Representation, Morgan Kaufmann, 1985, ISBN 0-934613-01-X Chein, M., Mugnier, M.-L. (2009),Graph-based Knowledge Representation: Computational Foundations of Conceptual Graphs, Springer, 2009,ISBN 978-1-84800-285-2.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Randall Davis, Howard Shrobe, and Peter Szolovits; What Is a Knowledge Representation?
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Vardi Reasoning About Knowledge, MIT Press, 1995, ISBN 0-262-06162-7 Jean-Luc Hainaut, Jean-Marc Hick, Vincent Englebert, Jean Henrard, Didier Roland: Understanding Implementations of IS-A Relations.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — ER 1996: 42-57 Hermann Helbig: Knowledge Representation and the Semantics of Natural Language, Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, New York 2006 Frank van Harmelen, Vladimir Lifschitz and Bruce Porter: Handbook of Knowledge Representation 2007.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Sowa: Knowledge Representation: Logical, Philosophical, and Computational Foundations.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — Wilson: Knowledge Systems and Prolog, Second Edition, Addison-Wesley, 1990 Mary-Anne Williams and Hans Rott: "Frontiers in Belief Revision, Kluwer", 2001.
Knowledge representation and reasoning — What is a Knowledge Representation? by Randall Davis and others Introduction to Knowledge Modeling by Pejman Makhfi Introduction to Description Logics course by Enrico Franconi, Faculty of Computer Science, Free University of Bolzano, Italy DATR Lexical knowledge representation language Loom Project Home Page Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning Incorporated Description Logic in Practice: A CLASSIC Application The Rule Markup Initiative Nelements KOS - a non-free 3d knowledge representation system
Ontology (information science) — In information science, an ontology encompasses a representation, formal naming, and definitions of the categories, properties, and relations between the concepts, data, or entities that pertain to one, many, or all domains of discourse.
Ontology (information science) — More simply, an ontology is a way of showing the properties of a subject area and how they are related, by defining a set of terms and relational expressions that represent the entities in that subject area.
Ontology (information science) — The field which studies ontologies so conceived is sometimes referred to as applied ontology.
Ontology (information science) — Every academic discipline or field, in creating its terminology, thereby lays the groundwork for an ontology.
Ontology (information science) — Each uses ontological assumptions to frame explicit theories, research and applications.
Ontology (information science) — Improved ontologies may improve problem solving within that domain, interoperability of data systems, and discoverability of data.
Ontology (information science) — Translating research papers within every field is a problem made easier when experts from different countries maintain a controlled vocabulary of jargon between each of their languages.
Ontology (information science) — For instance, the definition and ontology of economics is a primary concern in Marxist economics, but also in other subfields of economics.
Ontology (information science) — An example of economics relying on information science occurs in cases where a simulation or model is intended to enable economic decisions, such as determining what capital assets are at risk and by how much (see risk management).
Ontology (information science) — What ontologies in both information science and philosophy have in common is the attempt to represent entities, including both objects and events, with all their interdependent properties and relations, according to a system of categories.
Ontology (information science) — In both fields, there is considerable work on problems of ontology engineering (e.g., Quine and Kripke in philosophy, Sowa and Guarino in information science), and debates concerning to what extent normative ontology is possible (e.g., foundationalism and coherentism in philosophy, BFO and Cyc in artificial intelligence).
Ontology (information science) — Applied ontology is considered by some as a successor to prior work in philosophy.
Ontology (information science) — However many current efforts are more concerned with establishing controlled vocabularies of narrow domains than with philosophical first principles, or with questions such as the mode of existence of fixed essences or whether enduring objects (e.g., perdurantism and endurantism) may be ontologically more primary than processes.
Ontology (information science) — Artificial intelligence has retained considerable attention regarding applied ontology in subfields like natural language processing within machine translation and knowledge representation, but ontology editors are being used often in a range of fields, including biomedical informatics, industry.
Ontology (information science) — Ontology is a branch of philosophy and intersects areas such as metaphysics, epistemology, and philosophy of language, as it considers how knowledge, language, and perception relate to the nature of reality.
Ontology (information science) — Metaphysics deals with questions like "what exists?" and "what is the nature of reality?".
Ontology (information science) — One of five traditional branches of philosophy, metaphysics is concerned with exploring existence through properties, entities and relations such as those between particulars and universals, intrinsic and extrinsic properties, or essence and existence.
Ontology (information science) — The compound word ontology combines onto-, from the Greek ὄν, on (gen. ὄντος, ontos), i.e. "being; that which is", which is the present participle of the verb εἰμί, eimí, i.e. "to be, I am", and -λογία, -logia, i.e. "logical discourse", see classical compounds for this type of word formation.
Ontology (information science) — While the etymology is Greek, the oldest extant record of the word itself, the Neo-Latin form ontologia, appeared in 1606 in the work Ogdoas Scholastica by Jacob Lorhard (Lorhardus) and in 1613 in the Lexicon philosophicum by Rudolf Göckel (Goclenius).
Ontology (information science) — The first occurrence in English of ontology as recorded by the OED (Oxford English Dictionary, online edition, 2008) came in Archeologia Philosophica Nova or New Principles of Philosophy (1663) by Gideon Harvey.
Ontology (information science) — Since the mid-1970s, researchers in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) have recognized that knowledge engineering is the key to building large and powerful AI systems.
Ontology (information science) — AI researchers argued that they could create new ontologies as computational models that enable certain kinds of automated reasoning, which was only marginally successful.
Ontology (information science) — In the 1980s, the AI community began to use the term ontology to refer to both a theory of a modeled world and a component of knowledge-based systems.
Ontology (information science) — In particular, David Powers introduced the word ontology to AI to refer to real world or robotic grounding, publishing in 1990 literature reviews emphasizing grounded ontology in association with the call for papers for a AAAI Summer Symposium Machine Learning of Natural Language and Ontology, with an expanded version published in SIGART Bulletin and included as a preface to the proceedings.
Ontology (information science) — Some researchers, drawing inspiration from philosophical ontologies, viewed computational ontology as a kind of applied philosophy.
Ontology (information science) — In 1993, the widely cited web page and paper "Toward Principles for the Design of Ontologies Used for Knowledge Sharing" by Tom Gruber used ontology as a technical term in computer science closely related to earlier idea of semantic networks and taxonomies.
Ontology (information science) — Gruber introduced the term as a specification of a conceptualization: An ontology is a description (like a formal specification of a program) of the concepts and relationships that can formally exist for an agent or a community of agents.
Ontology (information science) — This definition is consistent with the usage of ontology as set of concept definitions, but more general.
Ontology (information science) — Attempting to distance ontologies from taxonomies and similar efforts in knowledge modeling that rely on classes and inheritance, Gruber stated (1993): Ontologies are often equated with taxonomic hierarchies of classes, class definitions, and the subsumption relation, but ontologies need not be limited to these forms.
Ontology (information science) — Ontologies are also not limited to conservative definitions, that is, definitions in the traditional logic sense that only introduce terminology and do not add any knowledge about the world (Enderton, 1972).
Ontology (information science) — To specify a conceptualization, one needs to state axioms that do constrain the possible interpretations for the defined terms.
Ontology (information science) — Recent experimental ontology frameworks have also explored resonance-based AI-human co-evolution structures, such as IAMF (Illumination AI Matrix Framework) and OntoMotoOS (a meta-operating system concept for ethical and ontological AI-human co-evolution).
Ontology (information science) — Though not yet widely adopted in academic discourse, such models propose phased approaches to ethical harmonization and structural emergence.
Ontology (information science) — As refinement of Gruber's definition Feilmayr and Wöß (2016) stated: "An ontology is a formal, explicit specification of a shared conceptualization that is characterized by high semantic expressiveness required for increased complexity."
Ontology (information science) — Contemporary ontologies share many structural similarities, regardless of the language in which they are expressed.
Ontology (information science) — Most ontologies describe individuals (instances), classes (concepts), attributes and relations.
Ontology (information science) — ==== Domain ontology ==== A domain ontology (or domain-specific ontology) represents concepts which belong to a realm of the world, such as biology or politics.
Ontology (information science) — An ontology about the domain of poker would model the "playing card" meaning of the word, while an ontology about the domain of computer hardware would model the "punched card" and "video card" meanings.
Ontology (information science) — Since domain ontologies are written by different people, they represent concepts in very specific and unique ways, and are often incompatible within the same project.
Ontology (information science) — As systems that rely on domain ontologies expand, they often need to merge domain ontologies by hand-tuning each entity or using a combination of software merging and hand-tuning.
Ontology (information science) — Different ontologies in the same domain arise due to different languages, different intended usage of the ontologies, and different perceptions of the domain (based on cultural background, education, ideology, etc.).
Ontology (information science) — At present, merging ontologies that are not developed from a common upper ontology is a largely manual process and therefore time-consuming and expensive.
Ontology (information science) — Domain ontologies that use the same upper ontology to provide a set of basic elements with which to specify the meanings of the domain ontology entities can be merged with less effort.
Ontology (information science) — There are studies on generalized techniques for merging ontologies, but this area of research is still ongoing, and it is a recent event to see the issue sidestepped by having multiple domain ontologies using the same upper ontology like the OBO Foundry.
Ontology (information science) — An upper ontology (or foundation ontology) is a model of the commonly shared relations and objects that are generally applicable across a wide range of domain ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — It usually employs a core glossary that overarches the terms and associated object descriptions as they are used in various relevant domain ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — Standardized upper ontologies available for use include BFO, BORO method, Dublin Core, GFO, Cyc, SUMO, UMBEL, and DOLCE.
Ontology (information science) — WordNet has been considered an upper ontology by some and has been used as a linguistic tool for learning domain ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — === Hybrid ontology === The Gellish ontology is an example of a combination of an upper and a domain ontology.
Ontology (information science) — An updated survey of ontology visualization methods and tools was published by Dudás et al.
Ontology (information science) — The most established ontology visualization methods, namely indented tree and graph visualization are evaluated by Fu et al.
Ontology (information science) — A visual language for ontologies represented in OWL is specified by the Visual Notation for OWL Ontologies (VOWL).
Ontology (information science) — Ontology engineering (also called ontology building) is a set of tasks related to the development of ontologies for a particular domain.
Ontology (information science) — It is a subfield of knowledge engineering that studies the ontology development process, the ontology life cycle, the methods and methodologies for building ontologies, and the tools and languages that support them.
Ontology (information science) — Ontology engineering aims to make explicit the knowledge contained in software applications, and organizational procedures for a particular domain.
Ontology (information science) — Ontology engineering offers a direction for overcoming semantic obstacles, such as those related to the definitions of business terms and software classes.
Ontology (information science) — Ensuring the ontology is current with domain knowledge and term use Providing sufficient specificity and concept coverage for the domain of interest, thus minimizing the content completeness problem Ensuring the ontology can support its use cases
Ontology (information science) — === Editors === Ontology editors are applications designed to assist in the creation or manipulation of ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — Aspects of ontology editors include: visual navigation possibilities within the knowledge model, inference engines and information extraction; support for modules; the import and export of foreign knowledge representation languages for ontology matching; and the support of meta-ontologies such as OWL-S, Dublin Core, etc.
Ontology (information science) — Ontology learning is the automatic or semi-automatic creation of ontologies, including extracting a domain's terms from natural language text.
Ontology (information science) — As building ontologies manually is extremely labor-intensive and time-consuming, there is great motivation to automate the process.
Ontology (information science) — Information extraction and text mining have been explored to automatically link ontologies to documents, for example in the context of the BioCreative challenges.
Ontology (information science) — Epistemological assumptions, which in research asks "What do you know? or "How do you know it?", creates the foundation researchers use when approaching a certain topic or area for potential research.
Ontology (information science) — As epistemology is directly linked to knowledge and how we come about accepting certain truths, individuals conducting academic research must understand what allows them to begin theory building.
Ontology (information science) — Simply, epistemological assumptions force researchers to question how they arrive at the knowledge they have.
Ontology (information science) — There are a number of such languages for ontologies, both proprietary and standards-based:
Ontology (information science) — Common Algebraic Specification Language is a general logic-based specification language developed within the IFIP working group 1.3 "Foundations of System Specifications" and is a de facto standard language for software specifications.
Ontology (information science) — It is now being applied to ontology specifications in order to provide modularity and structuring mechanisms.
Ontology (information science) — Common logic is ISO standard 24707, a specification of a family of ontology languages that can be accurately translated into each other.
Ontology (information science) — The Cyc project has its own ontology language called CycL, based on first-order predicate calculus with some higher-order extensions.
Ontology (information science) — DOGMA (Developing Ontology-Grounded Methods and Applications) adopts the fact-oriented modeling approach to provide a higher level of semantic stability.
Ontology (information science) — The Gellish language includes rules for its own extension and thus integrates an ontology with an ontology language.
Ontology (information science) — IDEF5 is a software engineering method to develop and maintain usable, accurate, domain ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — MOF and UML are standards of the OMG Olog is a category theoretic approach to ontologies, emphasizing translations between ontologies using functors.
Ontology (information science) — OntoUML is an ontologically well-founded profile of UML for conceptual modeling of domain ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — OWL is a language for making ontological statements, developed as a follow-on from RDF and RDFS, as well as earlier ontology language projects including OIL, DAML, and DAML+OIL.
Ontology (information science) — OWL is intended to be used over the World Wide Web, and all its elements (classes, properties and individuals) are defined as RDF resources, and identified by URIs.
Ontology (information science) — Semantic Application Design Language (SADL) captures a subset of the expressiveness of OWL, using an English-like language entered via an Eclipse Plug-in.
Ontology (information science) — SBVR (Semantics of Business Vocabularies and Rules) is an OMG standard adopted in industry to build ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — == Published examples == Arabic Ontology, a linguistic ontology for Arabic, which can be used as an Arabic Wordnet but with ontologically-clean content.
Ontology (information science) — AURUM – Information Security Ontology, An ontology for information security knowledge sharing, enabling users to collaboratively understand and extend the domain knowledge body.
Ontology (information science) — It may serve as a basis for automated information security risk and compliance management.
Ontology (information science) — BabelNet, a very large multilingual semantic network and ontology, lexicalized in many languages Basic Formal Ontology, a formal upper ontology designed to support scientific research BioPAX, an ontology for the exchange and interoperability of biological pathway (cellular processes) data BMO, an e-Business Model Ontology based on a review of enterprise ontologies and business model literature SSBMO, a Strongly Sustainable Business Model Ontology based on a review of the systems based natural and social science literature (including business).
Ontology (information science) — Includes critique of and significant extensions to the Business Model Ontology (BMO).
Ontology (information science) — CCO and GexKB, Application Ontologies (APO) that integrate diverse types of knowledge with the Cell Cycle Ontology (CCO) and the Gene Expression Knowledge Base (GexKB) CContology (Customer Complaint Ontology), an e-business ontology to support online customer complaint management CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model, an ontology for cultural heritage COSMO, a Foundation Ontology (current version in OWL) that is designed to contain representations of all of the primitive concepts needed to logically specify the meanings of any domain entity.
Ontology (information science) — It is intended to serve as a basic ontology that can be used to translate among the representations in other ontologies or databases.
Ontology (information science) — It started as a merger of the basic elements of the OpenCyc and SUMO ontologies, and has been supplemented with other ontology elements (types, relations) so as to include representations of all of the words in the Longman dictionary defining vocabulary.
Ontology (information science) — Computer Science Ontology, an automatically generated ontology of research topics in the field of computer science Cyc, a large Foundation Ontology for formal representation of the universe of discourse Disease Ontology, designed to facilitate the mapping of diseases and associated conditions to particular medical codes DOLCE, a Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering Drammar, ontology of drama Dublin Core, a simple ontology for documents and publishing Financial Industry Business Ontology (FIBO), a business conceptual ontology for the financial industry Foundational, Core and Linguistic Ontologies Foundational Model of Anatomy, an ontology for human anatomy Friend of a Friend, an ontology for describing persons, their activities and their relations to other people and objects Gene Ontology for genomics Gellish English dictionary, an ontology that includes a dictionary and taxonomy that includes an upper ontology and a lower ontology that focuses on industrial and business applications in engineering, technology and procurement.
Ontology (information science) — Geopolitical ontology, an ontology describing geopolitical information created by Food and Agriculture Organization(FAO).
Ontology (information science) — The geopolitical ontology includes names in multiple languages (English, French, Spanish, Arabic, Chinese, Russian and Italian); maps standard coding systems (UN, ISO, FAOSTAT, AGROVOC, etc.); provides relations among territories (land borders, group membership, etc.); and tracks historical changes.
Ontology (information science) — In addition, FAO provides web services of geopolitical ontology and a module maker to download modules of the geopolitical ontology into different formats (RDF, XML, and EXCEL).
Ontology (information science) — GAO (General Automotive Ontology) – an ontology for the automotive industry that includes 'car' extensions GOLD, General Ontology for Linguistic Description GUM (Generalized Upper Model), a linguistically motivated ontology for mediating between clients systems and natural language technology IDEAS Group, a formal ontology for enterprise architecture being developed by the Australian, Canadian, UK and U.S.
Ontology (information science) — Linkbase, a formal representation of the biomedical domain, founded upon Basic Formal Ontology.
Ontology (information science) — LPL, Landmark Pattern Language NCBO Bioportal, biological and biomedical ontologies and associated tools to search, browse and visualise NIFSTD Ontologies from the Neuroscience Information Framework: a modular set of ontologies for the neuroscience domain.
Ontology (information science) — OBO-Edit, an ontology browser for most of the Open Biological and Biomedical Ontologies OBO Foundry, a suite of interoperable reference ontologies in biology and biomedicine OMNIBUS Ontology, an ontology of learning, instruction, and instructional design Ontology for Biomedical Investigations, an open-access, integrated ontology of biological and clinical investigations ONSTR, Ontology for Newborn Screening Follow-up and Translational Research, Newborn Screening Follow-up Data Integration Collaborative, Emory University, Atlanta.
Ontology (information science) — POPE, Purdue Ontology for Pharmaceutical Engineering PRO, the Protein Ontology of the Protein Information Resource, Georgetown University ProbOnto, knowledge base and ontology of probability distributions.
Ontology (information science) — Program abstraction taxonomy Protein Ontology for proteomics RXNO Ontology, for name reactions in chemistry SCDO, the Sickle Cell Disease Ontology, facilitates data sharing and collaborations within the SDC community, amongst other applications (see list on SCDO website).
Ontology (information science) — Schema.org, for embedding structured data into web pages, primarily for the benefit of search engines Sequence Ontology, for representing genomic feature types found on biological sequences SNOMED CT (Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine – Clinical Terms) Suggested Upper Merged Ontology, a formal upper ontology Systems Biology Ontology (SBO), for computational models in biology SWEET, Semantic Web for Earth and Environmental Terminology SSN/SOSA, The Semantic Sensor Network Ontology (SSN) and Sensor, Observation, Sample, and Actuator Ontology (SOSA) are W3C Recommendation and OGC Standards for describing sensors and their observations.
Ontology (information science) — ThoughtTreasure ontology TIME-ITEM, Topics for Indexing Medical Education Uberon, representing animal anatomical structures UMBEL, a lightweight reference structure of 20,000 subject concept classes and their relationships derived from OpenCyc WordNet, a lexical reference system YAMATO, Yet Another More Advanced Top-level Ontology YSO – General Finnish Ontology The W3C Linking Open Data community project coordinates attempts to converge different ontologies into worldwide Semantic Web.
Ontology (information science) — == Libraries == The development of ontologies has led to the emergence of services providing lists or directories of ontologies called ontology libraries.
Ontology (information science) — COLORE is an open repository of first-order ontologies in Common Logic with formal links between ontologies in the repository.
Ontology (information science) — Ontology Design Patterns portal is a wiki repository of reusable components and practices for ontology design, and also maintains a list of exemplary ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — Protégé Ontology Library contains a set of OWL, Frame-based and other format ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — OBO Foundry is a suite of interoperable reference ontologies in biology and biomedicine.
Ontology (information science) — Bioportal (ontology repository of NCBO) Linked Open Vocabularies OntoSelect Ontology Library offers similar services for RDF/S, DAML and OWL ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — Ontaria is a "searchable and browsable directory of semantic web data" with a focus on RDF vocabularies with OWL ontologies. (NB Project "on hold" since 2004).
Ontology (information science) — Swoogle is a directory and search engine for all RDF resources available on the Web, including ontologies.
Ontology (information science) — Open Ontology Repository initiative ROMULUS is a foundational ontology repository aimed at improving semantic interoperability.
Ontology (information science) — Currently there are three foundational ontologies in the repository: DOLCE, BFO and GFO.
Ontology (information science) — == Examples of applications == In general, ontologies can be used beneficially in several fields.
Ontology (information science) — A more concrete example is SAPPHIRE (Health care) or Situational Awareness and Preparedness for Public Health Incidences and Reasoning Engines which is a semantics-based health information system capable of tracking and evaluating situations and occurrences that may affect public health.
Ontology (information science) — Geographic information systems bring together data from different sources and benefit therefore from ontological metadata which helps to connect the semantics of the data.
Ontology (information science) — Domain-specific ontologies are extremely important in biomedical research, which requires named entity disambiguation of various biomedical terms and abbreviations that have the same string of characters but represent different biomedical concepts.
Ontology (information science) — For example, CSF can represent Colony Stimulating Factor or Cerebral Spinal Fluid, both of which are represented by the same term, CSF, in biomedical literature.
Ontology (information science) — This is why a large number of public ontologies are related to the life sciences.
Ontology (information science) — Life science data science tools that fail to implement these types of biomedical ontologies will not be able to accurately determine causal relationships between concepts.
Ontology (information science) — Related philosophical concepts Alphabet of human thought Characteristica universalis Interoperability Level of measurement Metalanguage Natural semantic metalanguage
Ontology (information science) — == Further reading == Oberle, D.; Guarino, N.; Staab, S. (2009). "What is an Ontology?" (PDF).
Ontology (information science) — Fensel, D.; van Harmelen, F.; Horrocks, I.; McGuinness, D.L.; Patel-Schneider, P.F. (2001). "OIL: an ontology infrastructure for the Semantic Web".
Ontology (information science) — Golemati, M.; Katifori, A.; Vassilakis, C.; Lepouras, G.; Halatsis, C. (2007). "Creating an Ontology for the User Profile# Method and Applications" (PDF).
Ontology (information science) — Proceedings of the First IEEE International Conference on Research Challenges in Information Science (RCIS), Morocco 2007.
Ontology (information science) — Mizoguchi, R. (2004). "Tutorial on ontological engineering: Part 3: Advanced course of ontological engineering" (PDF).
Ontology (information science) — Noy, Natalya F.; McGuinness, Deborah L. (March 2001). "Ontology Development 101: A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology".
Ontology (information science) — Stanford Knowledge Systems Laboratory Technical Report KSL-01-05, Stanford Medical Informatics Technical Report SMI-2001-0880.
Ontology (information science) — Chaminda Abeysiriwardana, Prabath; Kodituwakku, Saluka R (2012). "Ontology Based Information Extraction for Disease Intelligence".
Ontology (information science) — Bibcode:2012arXiv1211.3497C. doi:10.7815/ijorcs.26.2012.051 (inactive 12 July 2025).
Ontology (information science) — S2CID 11297019.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025 (link) Razmerita, L.; Angehrn, A.; Maedche, A. (2003). "Ontology-Based User Modeling for Knowledge Management Systems".
Ontology (information science) — Soylu, A.; De Causmaecker, Patrick (2009). "Merging model driven and ontology driven system development approaches pervasive computing perspective".
Ontology (information science) — Proceedings of the 24th International Symposium on Computer and Information Sciences. pp.
Ontology (information science) — Uschold, Mike; Gruninger, M. (1996). "Ontologies: Principles, Methods and Applications".
Ontology (information science) — Pidcock, W. "What are the differences between a vocabulary, a taxonomy, a thesaurus, an ontology, and a meta-model?".
Ontology (information science) — Yudelson, M.; Gavrilova, T.; Brusilovsky, P. (2005). "Towards User Modeling Meta-ontology".
Ontology (information science) — Movshovitz-Attias, Dana; Cohen, William W. (2012). "Bootstrapping Biomedical Ontologies for Scientific Text using NELL" (PDF).
Ontology (information science) — Knowledge Representation at Open Directory Project Library of ontologies (Archive, Unmaintained) GoPubMed using Ontologies for searching ONTOLOG (a.k.a. "Ontolog Forum") - an Open, International, Virtual Community of Practice on Ontology, Ontological Engineering and Semantic Technology Use of Ontologies in Natural Language Processing Ontology Summit - an annual series of events (first started in 2006) that involves the ontology community and communities related to each year's theme chosen for the summit.
Ontology learning — Ontology learning (ontology extraction, ontology augmentation generation, ontology generation, or ontology acquisition) is the automatic or semi-automatic creation of ontologies, including extracting the corresponding domain's terms and the relationships between the concepts that these terms represent from a corpus of natural language text, and encoding them with an ontology language for easy retrieval.
Ontology learning — As building ontologies manually is extremely labor-intensive and time-consuming, there is great motivation to automate the process.
Ontology learning — Typically, the process starts by extracting terms and concepts or noun phrases from plain text using linguistic processors such as part-of-speech tagging and phrase chunking.
Ontology learning — Then statistical or symbolic techniques are used to extract relation signatures, often based on pattern-based or definition-based hypernym extraction techniques.
Ontology learning — == Procedure == Ontology learning (OL) is used to (semi-)automatically extract whole ontologies from natural language text.
Ontology learning — The process is usually split into the following eight tasks, which are not all necessarily applied in every ontology learning system.
Ontology learning — === Domain terminology extraction === During the domain terminology extraction step, domain-specific terms are extracted, which are used in the following step (concept discovery) to derive concepts.
Ontology learning — Relevant terms can be determined, e.g., by calculation of the TF/IDF values or by application of the C-value / NC-value method.
Ontology learning — In the subsequent step, similarly to coreference resolution in information extraction, the OL system determines synonyms, because they share the same meaning and therefore correspond to the same concept.
Ontology learning — The most common methods therefore are clustering and the application of statistical similarity measures.
Ontology learning — === Concept discovery === In the concept discovery step, terms are grouped to meaning bearing units, which correspond to an abstraction of the world and therefore to concepts.
Ontology learning — The grouped terms are these domain-specific terms and their synonyms, which were identified in the domain terminology extraction step.
Ontology learning — === Concept hierarchy derivation === In the concept hierarchy derivation step, the OL system tries to arrange the extracted concepts in a taxonomic structure.
Ontology learning — Because the result of such methods is often noisy, a supervision step, e.g., user evaluation, is added.
Ontology learning — A further method for the derivation of a concept hierarchy exists in the usage of several patterns that should indicate a sub- or supersumption relationship.
Ontology learning — Patterns like “X, that is a Y” or “X is a Y” indicate that X is a subclass of Y.
Ontology learning — Such pattern can be analyzed efficiently, but they often occur too infrequently to extract enough sub- or supersumption relationships.
Ontology learning — Instead, bootstrapping methods are developed, which learn these patterns automatically and therefore ensure broader coverage.
Ontology learning — === Learning of non-taxonomic relations === In the learning of non-taxonomic relations step, relationships are extracted that do not express any sub- or supersumption.
Ontology learning — The first is based upon the extraction of anonymous associations, which are named appropriately in a second step.
Ontology learning — The second approach extracts verbs, which indicate a relationship between entities, represented by the surrounding words.
Ontology learning — The result of both approaches need to be evaluated by an ontologist to ensure accuracy.
Ontology learning — === Rule discovery === During rule discovery, axioms (formal description of concepts) are generated for the extracted concepts.
Ontology learning — This can be achieved, e.g., by analyzing the syntactic structure of a natural language definition and the application of transformation rules on the resulting dependency tree.
Ontology learning — The result of this process is a list of axioms, which, afterwards, is comprehended to a concept description.
Ontology learning — === Ontology population === At this step, the ontology is augmented with instances of concepts and properties.
Ontology learning — For the augmentation with instances of concepts, methods based on the matching of lexico-syntactic patterns are used.
Ontology learning — Instances of properties are added through the application of bootstrapping methods, which collect relation tuples.
Ontology learning — === Concept hierarchy extension === In this step, the OL system tries to extend the taxonomic structure of an existing ontology with further concepts.
Ontology learning — This can be performed in a supervised manner with a trained classifier or in an unsupervised manner via the application of similarity measures.
Ontology learning — === Frame and Event detection === During frame/event detection, the OL system tries to extract complex relationships from text, e.g., who departed from where to what place and when.
Ontology learning — Approaches range from applying SVM with kernel methods to semantic role labeling (SRL) to deep semantic parsing techniques.
Ontology learning — == Tools == Dog4Dag (Dresden Ontology Generator for Directed Acyclic Graphs) is an ontology generation plugin for Protégé 4.1 and OBOEdit 2.1.
Ontology learning — It allows for term generation, sibling generation, definition generation, and relationship induction.
Ontology learning — Integrated into Protégé 4.1 and OBO-Edit 2.1, DOG4DAG allows ontology extension for all common ontology formats (e.g., OWL and OBO).
Ontology learning — == See also == Automatic taxonomy construction Computational linguistics Domain ontology Information extraction Natural language understanding Semantic Web Text mining
Ontology learning — Ontology Learning and Population: Bridging the Gap between Text and Knowledge, Series information for Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence and Applications, IOS Press, 2008.
Ontology learning — Ontology Learning from Text: Methods, Evaluation and Applications, Series information for Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence and Applications, IOS Press, 2005.
Ontology learning — Wong, W. (2009), "Learning Lightweight Ontologies from Text across Different Domains using the Web as Background Knowledge".
Ontology learning — Wong, W., Liu, W. & Bennamoun, M. (2012), "Ontology Learning from Text: A Look back and into the Future".
Ontology learning — Thomas Wächter, Götz Fabian, Michael Schroeder: DOG4DAG: semi-automated ontology generation in OBO-Edit and Protégé.
Knowledge graph — In knowledge representation and reasoning, a knowledge graph is a knowledge base that uses a graph-structured data model or topology to represent and operate on data.
Knowledge graph — Knowledge graphs are often used to store interlinked descriptions of entities – objects, events, situations or abstract concepts – while also encoding the free-form semantics or relationships underlying these entities.
Knowledge graph — Since the development of the Semantic Web, knowledge graphs have often been associated with linked open data projects, focusing on the connections between concepts and entities.
Knowledge graph — They are also historically associated with and used by search engines such as Google, Bing, Yext and Yahoo; knowledge engines and question-answering services such as WolframAlpha, Apple's Siri, and Amazon Alexa; and social networks such as LinkedIn and Facebook.
Knowledge graph — Recent developments in data science and machine learning, particularly in graph neural networks and representation learning and also in machine learning, have broadened the scope of knowledge graphs beyond their traditional use in search engines and recommender systems.
Knowledge graph — They are increasingly used in scientific research, with notable applications in fields such as genomics, proteomics, and systems biology.
Knowledge graph — == History == The term was coined as early as 1972 by the Austrian linguist Edgar W.
Knowledge graph — Schneider, in a discussion of how to build modular instructional systems for courses.
Knowledge graph — In the late 1980s, the University of Groningen and University of Twente jointly began a project called Knowledge Graphs, focusing on the design of semantic networks with edges restricted to a limited set of relations, to facilitate algebras on the graph.
Knowledge graph — In subsequent decades, the distinction between semantic networks and knowledge graphs was blurred.
Knowledge graph — In 1985, Wordnet was founded, capturing semantic relationships between words and meanings – an application of this idea to language itself.
Knowledge graph — In 2005, Marc Wirk founded Geonames to capture relationships between different geographic names and locales and associated entities.
Knowledge graph — In 1998 Andrew Edmonds of Science in Finance Ltd in the UK created a system called ThinkBase that offered fuzzy-logic based reasoning in a graphical context.
Knowledge graph — In 2007, both DBpedia and Freebase were founded as graph-based knowledge repositories for general-purpose knowledge.
Knowledge graph — DBpedia focused exclusively on data extracted from Wikipedia, while Freebase also included a range of public datasets.
Knowledge graph — Neither described themselves as a 'knowledge graph' but developed and described related concepts.
Knowledge graph — In 2012, Google introduced their Knowledge Graph, building on DBpedia and Freebase among other sources.
Knowledge graph — They later incorporated RDFa, Microdata, JSON-LD content extracted from indexed web pages, including the CIA World Factbook, Wikidata, and Wikipedia.
Knowledge graph — Entity and relationship types associated with this knowledge graph have been further organized using terms from the schema.org vocabulary.
Knowledge graph — The Google Knowledge Graph became a successful complement to string-based search within Google, and its popularity online brought the term into more common use.
Knowledge graph — Since then, several large multinationals have advertised their knowledge graphs use, further popularising the term.
Knowledge graph — In 2019, IEEE combined its annual international conferences on "Big Knowledge" and "Data Mining and Intelligent Computing" into the International Conference on Knowledge Graph.
Knowledge graph — == Definitions == There is no single commonly accepted definition of a knowledge graph.
Knowledge graph — Most definitions view the topic through a Semantic Web lens and include these features:
Knowledge graph — Flexible relations among knowledge in topical domains: A knowledge graph (i) defines abstract classes and relations of entities in a schema, (ii) mainly describes real world entities and their interrelations, organized in a graph, (iii) allows for potentially interrelating arbitrary entities with each other, and (iv) covers various topical domains.
Knowledge graph — General structure: A network of entities, their semantic types, properties, and relationships.
Knowledge graph — Supporting reasoning over inferred ontologies: A knowledge graph acquires and integrates information into an ontology and applies a reasoner to derive new knowledge.
Knowledge graph — There are, however, many knowledge graph representations for which some of these features are not relevant.
Knowledge graph — A digital structure that represents knowledge as concepts and the relationships between them (facts).
Knowledge graph — A knowledge graph can include an ontology that allows both humans and machines to understand and reason about its contents.
Knowledge graph — === Implementations === In addition to the above examples, the term has been used to describe open knowledge projects such as YAGO and Wikidata; federations like the Linked Open Data cloud; a range of commercial search tools, including Yahoo's semantic search assistant Spark, Google's Knowledge Graph, and Microsoft's Satori; and the LinkedIn and Facebook entity graphs.
Knowledge graph — The term is also used in the context of note-taking software applications that allow a user to build a personal knowledge graph.
Knowledge graph — The popularization of knowledge graphs and their accompanying methods have led to the development of graph databases such as Neo4j, GraphDB and AgensGraph.
Knowledge graph — These graph databases allow users to easily store data as entities and their interrelationships, and facilitate operations such as data reasoning, node embedding, and ontology development on knowledge bases.
Knowledge graph — In contrast, virtual knowledge graphs do not store information in specialized databases.
Knowledge graph — They rely on an underlying relational database or data lake to answer queries on the graph.
Knowledge graph — Such a virtual knowledge graph system must be properly configured in order to answer the queries correctly.
Knowledge graph — This specific configuration is done through a set of mappings that define the relationship between the elements of the data source and the structure and ontology of the virtual knowledge graph.
Knowledge graph — A knowledge graph formally represents semantics by describing entities and their relationships.
Knowledge graph — By doing this, they allow logical inference for retrieving implicit knowledge rather than only allowing queries requesting explicit knowledge.
Knowledge graph — In order to allow the use of knowledge graphs in various machine learning tasks, several methods for deriving latent feature representations of entities and relations have been devised.
Knowledge graph — These knowledge graph embeddings allow them to be connected to machine learning methods that require feature vectors like word embeddings.
Knowledge graph — Models for generating useful knowledge graph embeddings are commonly the domain of graph neural networks (GNNs).
Knowledge graph — GNNs are deep learning architectures that comprise edges and nodes, which correspond well to the entities and relationships of knowledge graphs.
Knowledge graph — The topology and data structures afforded by GNNs provides a convenient domain for semi-supervised learning, wherein the network is trained to predict the value of a node embedding (provided a group of adjacent nodes and their edges) or edge (provided a pair of nodes).
Knowledge graph — These tasks serve as fundamental abstractions for more complex tasks such as knowledge graph reasoning and alignment.
Knowledge graph — As new knowledge graphs are produced across a variety of fields and contexts, the same entity will inevitably be represented in multiple graphs.
Knowledge graph — However, because no single standard for the construction or representation of knowledge graph exists, resolving which entities from disparate graphs correspond to the same real world subject is a non-trivial task.
Knowledge graph — This task is known as knowledge graph entity alignment, and is an active area of research.
Knowledge graph — Strategies for entity alignment generally seek to identify similar substructures, semantic relationships, shared attributes, or combinations of all three between two distinct knowledge graphs.
Knowledge graph — Entity alignment methods use these structural similarities between generally non-isomorphic graphs to predict which nodes corresponds to the same entity.
Knowledge graph — The recent successes of large language models (LLMs), in particular their effectiveness at producing syntactically meaningful embeddings, has spurred the use of LLMs in the task of entity alignment.
Knowledge graph — As the amount of data stored in knowledge graphs grows, developing dependable methods for knowledge graph entity alignment becomes an increasingly crucial step in the integration and cohesion of knowledge graph data.
Knowledge graph — == See also == Concept map – Diagram showing relationships among concepts Formal semantics (natural language) – Formal study of linguistic meaning Graph database – Database using graph structures for queries Knowledge base – Information repository with multiple applications Knowledge graph embedding – Dimensionality reduction of graph-based semantic data objects [machine learning task] Logical graph – Type of diagrammatic notation for propositional logicPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Semantic integration – Interrelating info from diverse sources Semantic technology – Technology to help machines understand data Topic map – Knowledge organization system Vadalog – Type of Knowledge Graph Management System Wikibase- Mediawiki Software extensions for creating knowledge bases Wikidata - Free Knowledge Database Project YAGO (database) – Open-source information repository
Knowledge graph — Will Douglas Heaven (4 September 2020). "This know-it-all AI learns by reading the entire web nonstop".
Knowledge graph — Diffbot is building the biggest-ever knowledge graph by applying image recognition and natural-language processing to billions of web pages.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is a technique that enables large language models (LLMs) to retrieve and incorporate new information.
Retrieval-augmented generation — With RAG, LLMs do not respond to user queries until they refer to a specified set of documents.
Retrieval-augmented generation — These documents supplement information from the LLM's pre-existing training data.
Retrieval-augmented generation — This allows LLMs to use domain-specific and/or updated information that is not available in the training data.
Retrieval-augmented generation — For example, this helps LLM-based chatbots access internal company data or generate responses based on authoritative sources.
Retrieval-augmented generation — RAG improves large language models (LLMs) by incorporating information retrieval before generating responses.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Unlike traditional LLMs that rely on static training data, RAG pulls relevant text from databases, uploaded documents, or web sources.
Retrieval-augmented generation — According to Ars Technica, "RAG is a way of improving LLM performance, in essence by blending the LLM process with a web search or other document look-up process to help LLMs stick to the facts." This method helps reduce AI hallucinations, which have caused chatbots to describe policies that don't exist, or recommend nonexistent legal cases to lawyers that are looking for citations to support their arguments.
Retrieval-augmented generation — RAG also reduces the need to retrain LLMs with new data, saving on computational and financial costs.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Beyond efficiency gains, RAG also allows LLMs to include sources in their responses, so users can verify the cited sources.
Retrieval-augmented generation — This provides greater transparency, as users can cross-check retrieved content to ensure accuracy and relevance.
Retrieval-augmented generation — For example, when Google first demonstrated its LLM tool "Google Bard", the LLM provided incorrect information about the James Webb Space Telescope.
Retrieval-augmented generation — For example, LLMs can generate misinformation even when pulling from factually correct sources if they misinterpret the context.
Retrieval-augmented generation — MIT Technology Review gives the example of an AI-generated response stating, "The United States has had one Muslim president, Barack Hussein Obama." The model retrieved this from an academic book rhetorically titled Barack Hussein Obama: America’s First Muslim President?
Retrieval-augmented generation — The LLM did not "know" or "understand" the context of the title, generating a false statement.
Retrieval-augmented generation — This technique has been called "prompt stuffing." Without prompt stuffing, the LLM's input is generated by a user; with prompt stuffing, additional relevant context is added to this input to guide the model’s response.
Retrieval-augmented generation — This approach provides the LLM with key information early in the prompt, encouraging it to prioritize the supplied data over pre-existing training knowledge.
Retrieval-augmented generation — == Process == Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) enhances large language models (LLMs) by incorporating an information-retrieval mechanism that allows models to access and utilize additional data beyond their original training set.
Retrieval-augmented generation — AWS states, "RAG allows LLMs to retrieve relevant information from external data sources to generate more accurate and contextually relevant responses" ("indexing").
Retrieval-augmented generation — This approach reduces reliance on static datasets, which can quickly become outdated.
Retrieval-augmented generation — When a user submits a query, RAG uses a document retriever to search for relevant content from available sources before incorporating the retrieved information into the model's response ("retrieval").
Retrieval-augmented generation — Ars Technica notes that "when new information becomes available, rather than having to retrain the model, all that’s needed is to augment the model’s external knowledge base with the updated information" ("augmentation").
Retrieval-augmented generation — By dynamically integrating relevant data, RAG enables LLMs to generate more informed and contextually grounded responses ("generation").
Retrieval-augmented generation — IBM states that "in the generative phase, the LLM draws from the augmented prompt and its internal representation of its training data to synthesize an engaging answer tailored to the user in that instant.
Retrieval-augmented generation — ==== Indexing ==== Typically, the data to be referenced is converted into LLM embeddings, numerical representations in the form of a large vector space.
Retrieval-augmented generation — RAG can be used on unstructured (usually text), semi-structured, or structured data (for example knowledge graphs).
Retrieval-augmented generation — These embeddings are then stored in a vector database to allow for document retrieval.
Retrieval-augmented generation — ==== Retrieval ==== Given a user query, a document retriever is first called to select the most relevant documents that will be used to augment the query.
Retrieval-augmented generation — This comparison can be done using a variety of methods, which depend in part on the type of indexing used.
Retrieval-augmented generation — ==== Augmentation ==== The model feeds this relevant retrieved information into the LLM via prompt engineering of the user's original query.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Newer implementations (as of 2023) can also incorporate specific augmentation modules with abilities such as expanding queries into multiple domains and using memory and self-improvement to learn from previous retrievals.
Retrieval-augmented generation — ==== Generation ==== Finally, the LLM can generate output based on both the query and the retrieved documents.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Some models incorporate extra steps to improve output, such as the re-ranking of retrieved information, context selection, and fine-tuning.
Retrieval-augmented generation — == Improvements == Improvements to the basic process above can be applied at different stages in the RAG flow.
Retrieval-augmented generation — === Encoder === These methods focus on the encoding of text as either dense or sparse vectors.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Sparse vectors, which encode the identity of a word, are typically dictionary-length and contain mostly zeros.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Various enhancements can improve the way similarities are calculated in the vector stores (databases).
Retrieval-augmented generation — Dot products enhance similarity scoring, while approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) searches improve retrieval efficiency over K-nearest neighbors (KNN) searches.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Accuracy may be improved with Late Interactions, which allow the system to compare words more precisely after retrieval.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Hybrid vector approaches may be used to combine dense vector representations with sparse one-hot vectors, taking advantage of the computational efficiency of sparse dot products over dense vector operations.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Other retrieval techniques focus on improving accuracy by refining how documents are selected.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Some retrieval methods combine sparse representations, such as SPLADE, with query expansion strategies to improve search accuracy and recall.
Retrieval-augmented generation — === Retriever-centric methods === These methods aim to enhance the quality of document retrieval in vector databases:
Retrieval-augmented generation — Pre-training the retriever using the Inverse Cloze Task (ICT), a technique that helps the model learn retrieval patterns by predicting masked text within documents.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Progressive data augmentation, as used in Diverse Augmentation for Generalizable Dense Retrieval (DRAGON), improves dense retrieval by sampling difficult negative examples during training.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Supervised retriever optimization aligns retrieval probabilities with the generator model’s likelihood distribution.
Retrieval-augmented generation — This involves retrieving the top-k vectors for a given prompt, scoring the generated response’s perplexity, and minimizing KL divergence between the retriever’s selections and the model’s likelihoods to refine retrieval.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Reranking techniques can refine retriever performance by prioritizing the most relevant retrieved documents during training.
Retrieval-augmented generation — By redesigning the language model with the retriever in mind, a 25-time smaller network can get comparable perplexity as its much larger counterparts.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Because it is trained from scratch, this method (Retro) incurs the high cost of training runs that the original RAG scheme avoided.
Retrieval-augmented generation — The hypothesis is that by giving domain knowledge during training, Retro needs less focus on the domain and can devote its smaller weight resources only to language semantics.
Retrieval-augmented generation — It has been reported that Retro is not reproducible, so modifications were made to make it so.
Retrieval-augmented generation — === Chunking === Chunking involves various strategies for breaking up the data into vectors so the retriever can find details in it.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Overlapping consecutive chunks helps to maintain semantic context across chunks.
Retrieval-augmented generation — For example, code files are best chunked and vectorized as whole functions or classes.
Retrieval-augmented generation — === Knowledge graphs === Rather than using documents as a source to vectorize and retrieve from, Knowledge Graphs can be used.
Retrieval-augmented generation — One can start with a set of documents, books, or other bodies of text, and convert them to a knowledge graph using one of many methods, including language models.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Once the knowledge graph is created, subgraphs can be vectorized, stored in a vector database, and used for retrieval as in plain RAG.
Retrieval-augmented generation — The advantage here is that graphs has more recognizable structure than strings of text and this structure can help retrieve more relevant facts for generation.
Retrieval-augmented generation — === Hybrid search === Sometimes vector database searches can miss key facts needed to answer a user's question.
Retrieval-augmented generation — One way to mitigate this is to do a traditional text search, add those results to the text chunks linked to the retrieved vectors from the vector search, and feed the combined hybrid text into the language model for generation.
Retrieval-augmented generation — === Evaluation and benchmarks === RAG systems are commonly evaluated using benchmarks designed to test both retrieval accuracy and generative quality.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Popular datasets include BEIR, a suite of information retrieval tasks across diverse domains, and Natural Questions or Google QA for open-domain QA.
Retrieval-augmented generation — == Challenges == RAG is not a complete solution to the problem of hallucinations in LLMs.
Retrieval-augmented generation — According to Ars Technica, "It is not a direct solution because the LLM can still hallucinate around the source material in its response." While RAG improves the accuracy of large language models (LLMs), it does not eliminate all challenges.
Retrieval-augmented generation — One limitation is that while RAG reduces the need for frequent model retraining, it does not remove it entirely.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Additionally, LLMs may struggle to recognize when they lack sufficient information to provide a reliable response.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Without specific training, models may generate answers even when they should indicate uncertainty.
Retrieval-augmented generation — According to IBM, this issue can arise when the model lacks the ability to assess its own knowledge limitations.
Retrieval-augmented generation — RAG systems may retrieve factually correct but misleading sources, leading to errors in interpretation.
Retrieval-augmented generation — In some cases, an LLM may extract statements from a source without considering its context, resulting in an incorrect conclusion.
Retrieval-augmented generation — Additionally, when faced with conflicting information RAG models may struggle to determine which source is accurate.
Retrieval-augmented generation — The worst case outcome of this limitation is that the model may combine details from multiple sources producing responses that merge outdated and updated information in a misleading manner.
Retrieval-augmented generation — According to the MIT Technology Review, these issues occur because RAG systems may misinterpret the data they retrieve.
Vector database — A vector database, vector store or vector search engine is a database that uses the vector space model to store vectors (fixed-length lists of numbers) along with other data items.
Vector database — Vector databases typically implement one or more approximate nearest neighbor algorithms, so that one can search the database with a query vector to retrieve the closest matching database records.
Vector database — In this space, each dimension corresponds to a feature of the data, with the number of dimensions ranging from a few hundred to tens of thousands, depending on the complexity of the data being represented.
Vector database — Words, phrases, or entire documents, as well as images, audio, and other types of data, can all be vectorized.
Vector database — These feature vectors may be computed from the raw data using machine learning methods such as feature extraction algorithms, word embeddings or deep learning networks.
Vector database — The goal is that semantically similar data items receive feature vectors close to each other.
Vector database — Vector databases can be used for similarity search, semantic search, multi-modal search, recommendations engines, large language models (LLMs), object detection, etc.
Vector database — Vector databases are also often used to implement retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), a method to improve domain-specific responses of large language models.
Vector database — The retrieval component of a RAG can be any search system, but is most often implemented as a vector database.
Vector database — Text documents describing the domain of interest are collected, and for each document or document section, a feature vector (known as an "embedding") is computed, typically using a deep learning network, and stored in a vector database.
Vector database — Given a user prompt, the feature vector of the prompt is computed, and the database is queried to retrieve the most relevant documents.
Vector database — These are then automatically added into the context window of the large language model, and the large language model proceeds to create a response to the prompt given this context.
Vector database — == Techniques == The most important techniques for similarity search on high-dimensional vectors include:
Vector database — Hierarchical Navigable Small World (HNSW) graphs Locality-sensitive Hashing (LSH) and Sketching Product Quantization (PQ) Inverted Files and combinations of these techniques.
Vector database — In recent benchmarks, HNSW-based implementations have been among the best performers.
Vector database — Conferences such as the International Conference on Similarity Search and Applications, SISAP and the Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) host competitions on vector search in large databases.
Vector database — == See also == Curse of dimensionality – Difficulties arising when analyzing data with many aspects ("dimensions") Machine learning – Study of algorithms that improve automatically through experience Nearest neighbor search – Optimization problem in computer science Recommender system – System to predict users' preferences
Vector database — == External links == Sawers, Paul (2024-04-20). "Why vector databases are having a moment as the AI hype cycle peaks".
FAISS — FAISS (Facebook AI Similarity Search) is an open-source library for similarity search and clustering of vectors.
FAISS — It contains algorithms that search in sets of vectors of any size, up to ones that possibly do not fit in RAM.
FAISS — == Features == FAISS is organized as a toolbox that contains a variety of indexing methods that commonly involve a chain of components (preprocessing, compression, non-exhaustive search, etc.).
FAISS — The scope of the library is intentionally limited to focus on ANNS algorithmic implementation and to avoid facilities related to database functionality, distributed computing or feature extraction algorithms.
FAISS — The support of other floating-point formats, such as BF16 and FP16, is provided.
FAISS — Emphasize on allowing users to write a fast prototyping code using its Python wrappers.
FAISS — The code should be as open as possible, so that users can access all the implementation details of the indexes.
FAISS — Brute-force search Inverted-lists based indices Graph indices, including (Hierarchical navigable small world) HNSW and Navigating Spread-out Graph (NSG) Locality-sensitive hashing (LSH) The following families of vector quantization methods are supported:
FAISS — Binary Quantization Scalar Quantization (SQ) Product Quantization (PQ), including Polysemous Codes, Optimized Product Quantization (OPQ) and Quicker ADC (PQFastScan) Additive Quantization (AQ), including Residual Quantization (RQ) and Local Search Quantization (LSQ) Neural Quantization, including QINCO FAISS focuses on euclidean distance and inner product distance for floating-point data.
FAISS — The limited support of other distances (manhattan distance, Lp distance, etc.) is also available.
FAISS — FAISS code supports multithreading via OpenMP, utilizes BLAS via OpenBLAS or Intel MKL, and also uses custom SIMD kernels for x86 and ARM Neon CPUs.
FAISS — k-means clustering Random-matrix rotations for spreading the variance over all the dimensions without changing the measured distances Principal component analysis Data deduplication, which is especially useful for image datasets.
FAISS — FAISS has a standalone Vector Codec functionality for the lossy compression of vectors, allowing to trade the representation accuracy for the binary size.
FAISS — == Applications == Typical FAISS applications include recommender systems, data mining, text retrieval and content moderation.
FAISS — FAISS was reported to index 1.5 trillion 144-dimensional vectors for internal Meta Platforms applications.
FAISS — FAISS is used in vector databases as a core component of a search engine (OpenSearch, Milvus, Vearch).
FAISS — Various advanced code snippets for FAISS can be found on its snippets wiki page and case studies wiki page.
FAISS — == External links == Official website faiss on GitHub Official FAISS wiki Guidelines to choose a FAISS index Autofaiss - automatically create Faiss knn indices with the most optimal similarity search parameters
Hierarchical navigable small world — The Hierarchical navigable small world (HNSW) algorithm is a graph-based approximate nearest neighbor search technique used in many vector databases.
Hierarchical navigable small world — Nearest neighbor search without an index involves computing the distance from the query to each point in the database, which for large datasets is computationally prohibitive.
Hierarchical navigable small world — For high-dimensional data, tree-based exact vector search techniques such as the k-d tree and R-tree do not perform well enough because of the curse of dimensionality.
Hierarchical navigable small world — To remedy this, approximate k-nearest neighbor searches have been proposed, such as locality-sensitive hashing (LSH) and product quantization (PQ) that trade performance for accuracy.
Hierarchical navigable small world — The HNSW graph offers an approximate k-nearest neighbor search which scales logarithmically even in high-dimensional data.
Hierarchical navigable small world — It is an extension of the earlier work on navigable small world graphs presented at the Similarity Search and Applications (SISAP) conference in 2012 with an additional hierarchical navigation to find entry points to the main graph faster.
Hierarchical navigable small world — HNSW-based libraries are among the best performers in the approximate nearest neighbors benchmark.
Hierarchical navigable small world — == Use in vector databases == HNSW is a key method for approximate nearest neighbor search in high-dimensional vector databases, for example in the context of embeddings from neural networks in large language models.
Hierarchical navigable small world — SingleStore Apache Lucene Vector Search Chroma Qdrant Redis Vespa Vearch Gamma Weaviate pgvector MariaDB MongoDB Atlas ClickHouse Milvus DuckDB Kuzu Cozo TiDB Several of these use either the hnswlib library provided by the original authors, or the FAISS library. libvictor is another high-performance library that implements HNSW and other indexing structures, designed for flexibility and integration in custom vector database solutions.
Cosine similarity — In data analysis, cosine similarity is a measure of similarity between two non-zero vectors defined in an inner product space.
Cosine similarity — Cosine similarity is the cosine of the angle between the vectors; that is, it is the dot product of the vectors divided by the product of their lengths.
Cosine similarity — It follows that the cosine similarity does not depend on the magnitudes of the vectors, but only on their angle.
Cosine similarity — The cosine similarity always belongs to the interval [ − 1 , + 1 ] . {\displaystyle [-1,+1].} For example, two proportional vectors have a cosine similarity of +1, two orthogonal vectors have a similarity of 0, and two opposite vectors have a similarity of −1.
Cosine similarity — In some contexts, the component values of the vectors cannot be negative, in which case the cosine similarity is bounded in [ 0 , 1 ] {\displaystyle [0,1]} .
Cosine similarity — For example, in information retrieval and text mining, each word is assigned a different coordinate and a document is represented by the vector of the numbers of occurrences of each word in the document.
Cosine similarity — Cosine similarity then gives a useful measure of how similar two documents are likely to be, in terms of their subject matter, and independently of the length of the documents.
Cosine similarity — The technique is also used to measure cohesion within clusters in the field of data mining.
Cosine similarity — One advantage of cosine similarity is its low complexity, especially for sparse vectors: only the non-zero coordinates need to be considered.
Cosine similarity — Other names for cosine similarity include Orchini similarity and Tucker coefficient of congruence; the Otsuka–Ochiai similarity (see below) is cosine similarity applied to binary data.
Cosine similarity — == Definition == The cosine of two non-zero vectors can be derived by using the Euclidean dot product formula:
Cosine similarity — A ⋅ B = ‖ A ‖ ‖ B ‖ cos ⁡ θ {\displaystyle \mathbf {A} \cdot \mathbf {B} =\left\|\mathbf {A} \right\|\left\|\mathbf {B} \right\|\cos \theta }
Cosine similarity — Given two n-dimensional vectors of attributes, A and B, the cosine similarity, cos(θ), is represented using a dot product and magnitude as
Cosine similarity — cosine similarity = S C ( A , B ) := cos ⁡ ( θ ) = A ⋅ B ‖ A ‖ ‖ B ‖ = ∑ i = 1 n A i B i ∑ i = 1 n A i 2 ⋅ ∑ i = 1 n B i 2 , {\displaystyle {\text{cosine similarity}}=S_{C}(A,B):=\cos(\theta )={\mathbf {A} \cdot \mathbf {B} \over \|\mathbf {A} \|\|\mathbf {B} \|}={\frac {\sum \limits _{i=1}^{n}{A_{i}B_{i}}}{{\sqrt {\sum \limits _{i=1}^{n}{A_{i}^{2}}}}\cdot {\sqrt {\sum \limits _{i=1}^{n}{B_{i}^{2}}}}}},}
Cosine similarity — where A i {\displaystyle A_{i}} and B i {\displaystyle B_{i}} are the i {\displaystyle i} th components of vectors A {\displaystyle \mathbf {A} } and B {\displaystyle \mathbf {B} } , respectively.
Cosine similarity — The resulting similarity ranges from −1 meaning exactly opposite, to +1 meaning exactly the same, with 0 indicating orthogonality or decorrelation, while in-between values indicate intermediate similarity or dissimilarity.
Cosine similarity — For text matching, the attribute vectors A and B are usually the term frequency vectors of the documents.
Cosine similarity — Cosine similarity can be seen as a method of normalizing document length during comparison.
Cosine similarity — In the case of information retrieval, the cosine similarity of two documents will range from 0 → 1 {\displaystyle 0\to 1} , since the term frequencies cannot be negative.
Cosine similarity — If the attribute vectors are normalized by subtracting the vector means (e.g., A − A ¯ {\displaystyle A-{\bar {A}}} ), the measure is called the centered cosine similarity and is equivalent to the Pearson correlation coefficient.
Cosine similarity — if A = [ A 1 , A 2 ] T , then A ¯ = [ ( A 1 + A 2 ) 2 , ( A 1 + A 2 ) 2 ] T , {\displaystyle {\text{if}}\,A=[A_{1},A_{2}]^{T},{\text{ then }}{\bar {A}}=\left[{\frac {(A_{1}+A_{2})}{2}},{\frac {(A_{1}+A_{2})}{2}}\right]^{T},}
Cosine similarity — so A − A ¯ = [ ( A 1 − A 2 ) 2 , ( − A 1 + A 2 ) 2 ] T . {\displaystyle {\text{ so }}A-{\bar {A}}=\left[{\frac {(A_{1}-A_{2})}{2}},{\frac {(-A_{1}+A_{2})}{2}}\right]^{T}.}
Cosine similarity — === Cosine distance === When the distance between two unit-length vectors is defined to be the length of their vector difference then
Cosine similarity — dist ⁡ ( A , B ) = ( A − B ) ⋅ ( A − B ) = A ⋅ A − 2 ( A ⋅ B ) + B ⋅ B = 2 ( 1 − S C ( A , B ) ) . {\displaystyle \operatorname {dist} (\mathbf {A} ,\mathbf {B} )={\sqrt {(\mathbf {A} -\mathbf {B} )\cdot (\mathbf {A} -\mathbf {B} )}}={\sqrt {\mathbf {A} \cdot \mathbf {A} -2(\mathbf {A} \cdot \mathbf {B} )+\mathbf {B} \cdot \mathbf {B} }}={\sqrt {2(1-S_{C}(\mathbf {A} ,\mathbf {B} ))}}\,.}
Cosine similarity — Nonetheless the cosine distance is often defined without the square root or factor of 2:
Cosine similarity — cosine distance = D C ( A , B ) := 1 − S C ( A , B ) . {\displaystyle {\text{cosine distance}}=D_{C}(A,B):=1-S_{C}(A,B)\,.}
Cosine similarity — It is important to note that, by virtue of being proportional to squared Euclidean distance, the cosine distance is not a true distance metric; it does not exhibit the triangle inequality property — or, more formally, the Schwarz inequality — and it violates the coincidence axiom.
Cosine similarity — To repair the triangle inequality property while maintaining the same ordering, one can convert to Euclidean distance 2 ( 1 − S C ( A , B ) ) {\textstyle {\sqrt {2(1-S_{C}(A,B))}}} or angular distance θ = arccos(SC(A, B)).
Cosine similarity — Alternatively, the triangular inequality that does work for angular distances can be expressed directly in terms of the cosines; see below.
Cosine similarity — === Angular distance and similarity === The normalized angle, referred to as angular distance, between any two vectors A {\displaystyle A} and B {\displaystyle B} is a formal distance metric and can be calculated from the cosine similarity.
Cosine similarity — The complement of the angular distance metric can then be used to define angular similarity function bounded between 0 and 1, inclusive.
Cosine similarity — angular distance = D θ := arccos ⁡ ( cosine similarity ) π = θ π {\displaystyle {\text{angular distance}}=D_{\theta }:={\frac {\arccos({\text{cosine similarity}})}{\pi }}={\frac {\theta }{\pi }}}
Cosine similarity — angular similarity = S θ := 1 − angular distance = 1 − θ π {\displaystyle {\text{angular similarity}}=S_{\theta }:=1-{\text{angular distance}}=1-{\frac {\theta }{\pi }}}
Cosine similarity — angular distance = D θ := 2 ⋅ arccos ⁡ ( cosine similarity ) π = 2 θ π {\displaystyle {\text{angular distance}}=D_{\theta }:={\frac {2\cdot \arccos({\text{cosine similarity}})}{\pi }}={\frac {2\theta }{\pi }}}
Cosine similarity — angular similarity = S θ := 1 − angular distance = 1 − 2 θ π {\displaystyle {\text{angular similarity}}=S_{\theta }:=1-{\text{angular distance}}=1-{\frac {2\theta }{\pi }}}
Cosine similarity — Unfortunately, computing the inverse cosine (arccos) function is slow, making the use of the angular distance more computationally expensive than using the more common (but not metric) cosine distance above.
Cosine similarity — === L2-normalized Euclidean distance === Another effective proxy for cosine distance can be obtained by L 2 {\displaystyle L_{2}} normalisation of the vectors, followed by the application of normal Euclidean distance.
Cosine similarity — Using this technique each term in each vector is first divided by the magnitude of the vector, yielding a vector of unit length.
Cosine similarity — Then the Euclidean distance over the end-points of any two vectors is a proper metric which gives the same ordering as the cosine distance (a monotonic transformation of Euclidean distance; see below) for any comparison of vectors, and furthermore avoids the potentially expensive trigonometric operations required to yield a proper metric.
Cosine similarity — Once the normalisation has occurred, the vector space can be used with the full range of techniques available to any Euclidean space, notably standard dimensionality reduction techniques.
Cosine similarity — This normalised form distance is often used within many deep learning algorithms.
Cosine similarity — === Otsuka–Ochiai coefficient === In biology, there is a similar concept known as the Otsuka–Ochiai coefficient named after Yanosuke Otsuka (also spelled as Ōtsuka, Ootsuka or Otuka, Japanese: 大塚 弥之助) and Akira Ochiai (Japanese: 落合 明), also known as the Ochiai–Barkman or Ochiai coefficient, which can be represented as:
Cosine similarity — K = | A ∩ B | | A | × | B | {\displaystyle K={\frac {|A\cap B|}{\sqrt {|A|\times |B|}}}}
Cosine similarity — Here, A {\displaystyle A} and B {\displaystyle B} are sets, and | A | {\displaystyle |A|} is the number of elements in A {\displaystyle A} .
Cosine similarity — If sets are represented as bit vectors, the Otsuka–Ochiai coefficient can be seen to be the same as the cosine similarity.
Cosine similarity — In a recent book, the coefficient is tentatively misattributed to another Japanese researcher with the family name Otsuka.
Cosine similarity — The confusion arises because in 1957 Akira Ochiai attributes the coefficient only to Otsuka (no first name mentioned) by citing an article by Ikuso Hamai (Japanese: 浜井 生三), who in turn cites the original 1936 article by Yanosuke Otsuka.
Cosine similarity — == Properties == The most noteworthy property of cosine similarity is that it reflects a relative, rather than absolute, comparison of the individual vector dimensions.
Cosine similarity — For any positive constant a {\displaystyle a} and vector V {\displaystyle V} , the vectors V {\displaystyle V} and a V {\displaystyle aV} are maximally similar.
Cosine similarity — The measure is thus most appropriate for data where frequency is more important than absolute values; notably, term frequency in documents.
Cosine similarity — However more recent metrics with a grounding in information theory, such as Jensen–Shannon, SED, and triangular divergence have been shown to have improved semantics in at least some contexts.
Cosine similarity — Denote Euclidean distance by the usual ‖ A − B ‖ {\displaystyle \|A-B\|} , and observe that
Cosine similarity — ‖ A − B ‖ 2 = ( A − B ) ⋅ ( A − B ) = ‖ A ‖ 2 + ‖ B ‖ 2 − 2 ( A ⋅ B ) {\displaystyle \|A-B\|^{2}=(A-B)\cdot (A-B)=\|A\|^{2}+\|B\|^{2}-2(A\cdot B)\ } (polarization identity) by expansion.
Cosine similarity — When A and B are normalized to unit length, ‖ A ‖ 2 = ‖ B ‖ 2 = 1 {\displaystyle \|A\|^{2}=\|B\|^{2}=1} so this expression is equal to
Cosine similarity — In short, the cosine distance can be expressed in terms of Euclidean distance as
Cosine similarity — D C ( A , B ) = ‖ A − B ‖ 2 2 w h e n ‖ A ‖ 2 = ‖ B ‖ 2 = 1 {\displaystyle D_{C}(A,B)={\frac {\|A-B\|^{2}}{2}}\quad \mathrm {when} \quad \|A\|^{2}=\|B\|^{2}=1} .
Cosine similarity — The Euclidean distance is called the chord distance (because it is the length of the chord on the unit circle) and it is the Euclidean distance between the vectors which were normalized to unit sum of squared values within them.
Cosine similarity — Null distribution: For data which can be negative as well as positive, the null distribution for cosine similarity is the distribution of the dot product of two independent random unit vectors.
Cosine similarity — This distribution has a mean of zero and a variance of 1 / n {\displaystyle 1/n} (where n {\displaystyle n} is the number of dimensions), and although the distribution is bounded between −1 and +1, as n {\displaystyle n} grows large the distribution is increasingly well-approximated by the normal distribution.
Cosine similarity — Other types of data such as bitstreams, which only take the values 0 or 1, the null distribution takes a different form and may have a nonzero mean.
Cosine similarity — == Triangle inequality for cosine similarity == The ordinary triangle inequality for angles (i.e., arc lengths on a unit hypersphere) gives us that
Cosine similarity — | ∠ A C − ∠ C B | ≤ ∠ A B ≤ ∠ A C + ∠ C B . {\displaystyle |~\angle {AC}-\angle {CB}~|\leq ~\angle {AB}~\leq ~\angle {AC}~+~\angle {CB}~.}
Cosine similarity — Because the cosine function decreases as an angle in [0, π] radians increases, the sense of these inequalities is reversed when we take the cosine of each value:
Cosine similarity — cos ⁡ ( ∠ A C − ∠ C B ) ≥ cos ⁡ ( ∠ A B ) ≥ cos ⁡ ( ∠ A C + ∠ C B ) . {\displaystyle \cos(\angle {AC}-\angle {CB})\geq \cos(\angle {AB})\geq \cos(\angle {AC}+\angle {CB}).}
Cosine similarity — Using the cosine addition and subtraction formulas, these two inequalities can be written in terms of the original cosines,
Cosine similarity — cos ⁡ ( A , C ) ⋅ cos ⁡ ( C , B ) + ( 1 − cos ⁡ ( A , C ) 2 ) ⋅ ( 1 − cos ⁡ ( C , B ) 2 ) ≥ cos ⁡ ( A , B ) , {\displaystyle \cos(A,C)\cdot \cos(C,B)+{\sqrt {\left(1-\cos(A,C)^{2}\right)\cdot \left(1-\cos(C,B)^{2}\right)}}\geq \cos(A,B),}
Cosine similarity — cos ⁡ ( A , B ) ≥ cos ⁡ ( A , C ) ⋅ cos ⁡ ( C , B ) − ( 1 − cos ⁡ ( A , C ) 2 ) ⋅ ( 1 − cos ⁡ ( C , B ) 2 ) . {\displaystyle \cos(A,B)\geq \cos(A,C)\cdot \cos(C,B)-{\sqrt {\left(1-\cos(A,C)^{2}\right)\cdot \left(1-\cos(C,B)^{2}\right)}}.}
Cosine similarity — This form of the triangle inequality can be used to bound the minimum and maximum similarity of two objects A and B if the similarities to a reference object C is already known.
Cosine similarity — This is used for example in metric data indexing, but has also been used to accelerate spherical k-means clustering the same way the Euclidean triangle inequality has been used to accelerate regular k-means.
Cosine similarity — == Soft cosine measure == A soft cosine or ("soft" similarity) between two vectors considers similarities between pairs of features.
Cosine similarity — The traditional cosine similarity considers the vector space model (VSM) features as independent or completely different, while the soft cosine measure proposes considering the similarity of features in VSM, which help generalize the concept of cosine (and soft cosine) as well as the idea of (soft) similarity.
Cosine similarity — For example, in the field of natural language processing (NLP) the similarity among features is quite intuitive.
Cosine similarity — Features such as words, n-grams, or syntactic n-grams can be quite similar, though formally they are considered as different features in the VSM.
Cosine similarity — For example, words "play" and "game" are different words and thus mapped to different points in VSM; yet they are semantically related.
Cosine similarity — In case of n-grams or syntactic n-grams, Levenshtein distance can be applied (in fact, Levenshtein distance can be applied to words as well).
Cosine similarity — For calculating soft cosine, the matrix s is used to indicate similarity between features.
Cosine similarity — It can be calculated through Levenshtein distance, WordNet similarity, or other similarity measures.
Cosine similarity — Given two N-dimension vectors a {\displaystyle a} and b {\displaystyle b} , the soft cosine similarity is calculated as follows:
Cosine similarity — s o f t _ c o s i n e 1 ⁡ ( a , b ) = ∑ i , j N s i j a i b j ∑ i , j N s i j a i a j ∑ i , j N s i j b i b j , {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\operatorname {soft\_cosine} _{1}(a,b)={\frac {\sum \nolimits _{i,j}^{N}s_{ij}a_{i}b_{j}}{{\sqrt {\sum \nolimits _{i,j}^{N}s_{ij}a_{i}a_{j}}}{\sqrt {\sum \nolimits _{i,j}^{N}s_{ij}b_{i}b_{j}}}}},\end{aligned}}}
Cosine similarity — If there is no similarity between features (sii = 1, sij = 0 for i ≠ j), the given equation is equivalent to the conventional cosine similarity formula.
Cosine similarity — The time complexity of this measure is quadratic, which makes it applicable to real-world tasks.
Cosine similarity — An efficient implementation of such soft cosine similarity is included in the Gensim open source library.
Cosine similarity — == See also == Sørensen–Dice coefficient Hamming distance Correlation Jaccard index SimRank Information retrieval
Cosine similarity — == External links == Weighted cosine measure A tutorial on cosine similarity using Python
Dimensionality reduction — Dimensionality reduction, or dimension reduction, is the transformation of data from a high-dimensional space into a low-dimensional space so that the low-dimensional representation retains some meaningful properties of the original data, ideally close to its intrinsic dimension.
Dimensionality reduction — Working in high-dimensional spaces can be undesirable for many reasons; raw data are often sparse as a consequence of the curse of dimensionality, and analyzing the data is usually computationally intractable.
Dimensionality reduction — Dimensionality reduction is common in fields that deal with large numbers of observations and/or large numbers of variables, such as signal processing, speech recognition, neuroinformatics, and bioinformatics.
Dimensionality reduction — Linear approaches can be further divided into feature selection and feature extraction.
Dimensionality reduction — Dimensionality reduction can be used for noise reduction, data visualization, cluster analysis, or as an intermediate step to facilitate other analyses.
Dimensionality reduction — The process of feature selection aims to find a suitable subset of the input variables (features, or attributes) for the task at hand.
Dimensionality reduction — The three strategies are: the filter strategy (e.g., information gain), the wrapper strategy (e.g., accuracy-guided search), and the embedded strategy (features are added or removed while building the model based on prediction errors).
Dimensionality reduction — Data analysis such as regression or classification can be done in the reduced space more accurately than in the original space.
Dimensionality reduction — Feature projection (also called feature extraction) transforms the data from the high-dimensional space to a space of fewer dimensions.
Dimensionality reduction — The data transformation may be linear, as in principal component analysis (PCA), but many nonlinear dimensionality reduction techniques also exist.
Dimensionality reduction — For multidimensional data, tensor representation can be used in dimensionality reduction through multilinear subspace learning.
Dimensionality reduction — The main linear technique for dimensionality reduction, principal component analysis, performs a linear mapping of the data to a lower-dimensional space in such a way that the variance of the data in the low-dimensional representation is maximized.
Dimensionality reduction — In practice, the covariance (and sometimes the correlation) matrix of the data is constructed and the eigenvectors on this matrix are computed.
Dimensionality reduction — The eigenvectors that correspond to the largest eigenvalues (the principal components) can now be used to reconstruct a large fraction of the variance of the original data.
Dimensionality reduction — Moreover, the first few eigenvectors can often be interpreted in terms of the large-scale physical behavior of the system, because they often contribute the vast majority of the system's energy, especially in low-dimensional systems.
Dimensionality reduction — Still, this must be proved on a case-by-case basis as not all systems exhibit this behavior.
Dimensionality reduction — The original space (with dimension of the number of points) has been reduced (with data loss, but hopefully retaining the most important variance) to the space spanned by a few eigenvectors.
Dimensionality reduction — NMF decomposes a non-negative matrix to the product of two non-negative ones, which has been a promising tool in fields where only non-negative signals exist, such as astronomy.
Dimensionality reduction — NMF is well known since the multiplicative update rule by Lee & Seung, which has been continuously developed: the inclusion of uncertainties, the consideration of missing data and parallel computation, sequential construction which leads to the stability and linearity of NMF, as well as other updates including handling missing data in digital image processing.
Dimensionality reduction — With a stable component basis during construction, and a linear modeling process, sequential NMF is able to preserve the flux in direct imaging of circumstellar structures in astronomy, as one of the methods of detecting exoplanets, especially for the direct imaging of circumstellar discs.
Dimensionality reduction — In comparison with PCA, NMF does not remove the mean of the matrices, which leads to physical non-negative fluxes; therefore NMF is able to preserve more information than PCA as demonstrated by Ren et al.
Dimensionality reduction — Principal component analysis can be employed in a nonlinear way by means of the kernel trick.
Dimensionality reduction — The resulting technique is capable of constructing nonlinear mappings that maximize the variance in the data.
Dimensionality reduction — === Graph-based kernel PCA === Other prominent nonlinear techniques include manifold learning techniques such as Isomap, locally linear embedding (LLE), Hessian LLE, Laplacian eigenmaps, and methods based on tangent space analysis.
Dimensionality reduction — These techniques construct a low-dimensional data representation using a cost function that retains local properties of the data, and can be viewed as defining a graph-based kernel for Kernel PCA.
Dimensionality reduction — More recently, techniques have been proposed that, instead of defining a fixed kernel, try to learn the kernel using semidefinite programming.
Dimensionality reduction — The most prominent example of such a technique is maximum variance unfolding (MVU).
Dimensionality reduction — The central idea of MVU is to exactly preserve all pairwise distances between nearest neighbors (in the inner product space) while maximizing the distances between points that are not nearest neighbors.
Dimensionality reduction — An alternative approach to neighborhood preservation is through the minimization of a cost function that measures differences between distances in the input and output spaces.
Dimensionality reduction — Important examples of such techniques include: classical multidimensional scaling, which is identical to PCA; Isomap, which uses geodesic distances in the data space; diffusion maps, which use diffusion distances in the data space; t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE), which minimizes the divergence between distributions over pairs of points; and curvilinear component analysis.
Dimensionality reduction — A different approach to nonlinear dimensionality reduction is through the use of autoencoders, a special kind of feedforward neural networks with a bottleneck hidden layer.
Dimensionality reduction — The training of deep encoders is typically performed using a greedy layer-wise pre-training (e.g., using a stack of restricted Boltzmann machines) that is followed by a finetuning stage based on backpropagation.
Dimensionality reduction — Linear discriminant analysis (LDA) is a generalization of Fisher's linear discriminant, a method used in statistics, pattern recognition, and machine learning to find a linear combination of features that characterizes or separates two or more classes of objects or events.
Dimensionality reduction — === Generalized discriminant analysis (GDA) === GDA deals with nonlinear discriminant analysis using kernel function operator.
Dimensionality reduction — The underlying theory is close to the support-vector machines (SVM) insofar as the GDA method provides a mapping of the input vectors into high-dimensional feature space.
Dimensionality reduction — Similar to LDA, the objective of GDA is to find a projection for the features into a lower dimensional space by maximizing the ratio of between-class scatter to within-class scatter.
Dimensionality reduction — Autoencoders can be used to learn nonlinear dimension reduction functions and codings together with an inverse function from the coding to the original representation.
Dimensionality reduction — T-distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (t-SNE) is a nonlinear dimensionality reduction technique useful for the visualization of high-dimensional datasets.
Dimensionality reduction — It is not recommended for use in analysis such as clustering or outlier detection since it does not necessarily preserve densities or distances well.
Dimensionality reduction — Uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP) is a nonlinear dimensionality reduction technique.
Dimensionality reduction — Visually, it is similar to t-SNE, but it assumes that the data is uniformly distributed on a locally connected Riemannian manifold and that the Riemannian metric is locally constant or approximately locally constant.
Dimensionality reduction — == Dimension reduction == For high-dimensional datasets, dimension reduction is usually performed prior to applying a k-nearest neighbors (k-NN) algorithm in order to mitigate the curse of dimensionality.
Dimensionality reduction — Feature extraction and dimension reduction can be combined in one step, using principal component analysis (PCA), linear discriminant analysis (LDA), canonical correlation analysis (CCA), or non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) techniques to pre-process the data, followed by clustering via k-NN on feature vectors in a reduced-dimension space.
Dimensionality reduction — For high-dimensional datasets (e.g., when performing similarity search on live video streams, DNA data, or high-dimensional time series), running a fast approximate k-NN search using locality-sensitive hashing, random projection, "sketches", or other high-dimensional similarity search techniques from the VLDB conference toolbox may be the only feasible option.
Dimensionality reduction — == Applications == A dimensionality reduction technique that is sometimes used in neuroscience is maximally informative dimensions, which finds a lower-dimensional representation of a dataset such that as much information as possible about the original data is preserved.
Dimensionality reduction — == External links == JMLR Special Issue on Variable and Feature Selection ELastic MAPs Archived 2011-07-20 at the Wayback Machine Locally Linear Embedding Visual Comparison of various dimensionality reduction methods A Global Geometric Framework for Nonlinear Dimensionality Reduction
UMAP — Military Units to Aid Production University Mobility in Asia and the Pacific Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection
Principal component analysis — Principal component analysis (PCA) is a linear dimensionality reduction technique with applications in exploratory data analysis, visualization and data preprocessing.
Principal component analysis — The data is linearly transformed onto a new coordinate system such that the directions (principal components) capturing the largest variation in the data can be easily identified.
Principal component analysis — The principal components of a collection of points in a real coordinate space are a sequence of p {\displaystyle p} unit vectors, where the i {\displaystyle i} -th vector is the direction of a line that best fits the data while being orthogonal to the first i − 1 {\displaystyle i-1} vectors.
Principal component analysis — Here, a best-fitting line is defined as one that minimizes the average squared perpendicular distance from the points to the line.
Principal component analysis — These directions (i.e., principal components) constitute an orthonormal basis in which different individual dimensions of the data are linearly uncorrelated.
Principal component analysis — Many studies use the first two principal components in order to plot the data in two dimensions and to visually identify clusters of closely related data points.
Principal component analysis — Principal component analysis has applications in many fields such as population genetics, microbiome studies, and atmospheric science.
Principal component analysis — == Overview == When performing PCA, the first principal component of a set of p {\displaystyle p} variables is the derived variable formed as a linear combination of the original variables that explains the most variance.
Principal component analysis — The second principal component explains the most variance in what is left once the effect of the first component is removed, and we may proceed through p {\displaystyle p} iterations until all the variance is explained.
Principal component analysis — PCA is most commonly used when many of the variables are highly correlated with each other and it is desirable to reduce their number to an independent set.
Principal component analysis — The first principal component can equivalently be defined as a direction that maximizes the variance of the projected data.
Principal component analysis — The i {\displaystyle i} -th principal component can be taken as a direction orthogonal to the first i − 1 {\displaystyle i-1} principal components that maximizes the variance of the projected data.
Principal component analysis — For either objective, it can be shown that the principal components are eigenvectors of the data's covariance matrix.
Principal component analysis — Thus, the principal components are often computed by eigendecomposition of the data covariance matrix or singular value decomposition of the data matrix.
Principal component analysis — PCA is the simplest of the true eigenvector-based multivariate analyses and is closely related to factor analysis.
Principal component analysis — Factor analysis typically incorporates more domain-specific assumptions about the underlying structure and solves eigenvectors of a slightly different matrix.
Principal component analysis — CCA defines coordinate systems that optimally describe the cross-covariance between two datasets while PCA defines a new orthogonal coordinate system that optimally describes variance in a single dataset.
Principal component analysis — == History == PCA was invented in 1901 by Karl Pearson, as an analogue of the principal axis theorem in mechanics; it was later independently developed and named by Harold Hotelling in the 1930s.
Principal component analysis — Depending on the field of application, it is also named the discrete Karhunen–Loève transform (KLT) in signal processing, the Hotelling transform in multivariate quality control, proper orthogonal decomposition (POD) in mechanical engineering, singular value decomposition (SVD) of X (invented in the last quarter of the 19th century), eigenvalue decomposition (EVD) of XTX in linear algebra, factor analysis (for a discussion of the differences between PCA and factor analysis see Ch.
Principal component analysis — 7 of Jolliffe's Principal Component Analysis), Eckart–Young theorem (Harman, 1960), or empirical orthogonal functions (EOF) in meteorological science (Lorenz, 1956), empirical eigenfunction decomposition (Sirovich, 1987), quasiharmonic modes (Brooks et al., 1988), spectral decomposition in noise and vibration, and empirical modal analysis in structural dynamics.
Principal component analysis — PCA can be thought of as fitting a p-dimensional ellipsoid to the data, where each axis of the ellipsoid represents a principal component.
Principal component analysis — If some axis of the ellipsoid is small, then the variance along that axis is also small.
Principal component analysis — To find the axes of the ellipsoid, we must first center the values of each variable in the dataset on 0 by subtracting the mean of the variable's observed values from each of those values.
Principal component analysis — These transformed values are used instead of the original observed values for each of the variables.
Principal component analysis — Then, we compute the covariance matrix of the data and calculate the eigenvalues and corresponding eigenvectors of this covariance matrix.
Principal component analysis — Then we must normalize each of the orthogonal eigenvectors to turn them into unit vectors.
Principal component analysis — Once this is done, each of the mutually-orthogonal unit eigenvectors can be interpreted as an axis of the ellipsoid fitted to the data.
Principal component analysis — This choice of basis will transform the covariance matrix into a diagonalized form, in which the diagonal elements represent the variance of each axis.
Principal component analysis — The proportion of the variance that each eigenvector represents can be calculated by dividing the eigenvalue corresponding to that eigenvector by the sum of all eigenvalues.
Principal component analysis — Biplots and scree plots (degree of explained variance) are used to interpret findings of the PCA.
Principal component analysis — == Details == PCA is defined as an orthogonal linear transformation on a real inner product space that transforms the data to a new coordinate system such that the greatest variance by some scalar projection of the data comes to lie on the first coordinate (called the first principal component), the second greatest variance on the second coordinate, and so on.
Principal component analysis — Consider an n × p {\displaystyle n\times p} data matrix, X, with column-wise zero empirical mean (the sample mean of each column has been shifted to zero), where each of the n rows represents a different repetition of the experiment, and each of the p columns gives a particular kind of feature (say, the results from a particular sensor).
Principal component analysis — Mathematically, the transformation is defined by a set of size l {\displaystyle l} (where l {\displaystyle l} is usually selected to be strictly less than p {\displaystyle p} to reduce dimensionality) of p {\displaystyle p} -dimensional vectors of weights or coefficients w ( k ) = ( w 1 , … , w p ) ( k ) {\displaystyle \mathbf {w} _{(k)}=(w_{1},\dots ,w_{p})_{(k)}} that map each row vector x ( i ) = ( x 1 , … , x p ) ( i ) {\displaystyle \mathbf {x} _{(i)}=(x_{1},\dots ,x_{p})_{(i)}} of X to a new vector of principal component scores t ( i ) = ( t 1 , … , t l ) ( i ) {\displaystyle \mathbf {t} _{(i)}=(t_{1},\dots ,t_{l})_{(i)}} , given by
Principal component analysis — t k ( i ) = x ( i ) ⋅ w ( k ) f o r i = 1 , … , n k = 1 , … , l {\displaystyle {t_{k}}_{(i)}=\mathbf {x} _{(i)}\cdot \mathbf {w} _{(k)}\qquad \mathrm {for} \qquad i=1,\dots ,n\qquad k=1,\dots ,l}
Principal component analysis — in such a way that the individual variables t 1 , … , t l {\displaystyle t_{1},\dots ,t_{l}} of t considered over the data set successively inherit the maximum possible variance from X, with each coefficient vector w constrained to be a unit vector.
Principal component analysis — === First component === In order to maximize variance, the first weight vector w(1) thus has to satisfy
Principal component analysis — w ( 1 ) = arg ⁡ max ‖ w ‖ = 1 { ∑ i ( t 1 ) ( i ) 2 } = arg ⁡ max ‖ w ‖ = 1 { ∑ i ( x ( i ) ⋅ w ) 2 } {\displaystyle \mathbf {w} _{(1)}=\arg \max _{\Vert \mathbf {w} \Vert =1}\,\left\{\sum _{i}(t_{1})_{(i)}^{2}\right\}=\arg \max _{\Vert \mathbf {w} \Vert =1}\,\left\{\sum _{i}\left(\mathbf {x} _{(i)}\cdot \mathbf {w} \right)^{2}\right\}}
Principal component analysis — w ( 1 ) = arg ⁡ max ‖ w ‖ = 1 { ‖ X w ‖ 2 } = arg ⁡ max ‖ w ‖ = 1 { w T X T X w } {\displaystyle \mathbf {w} _{(1)}=\arg \max _{\left\|\mathbf {w} \right\|=1}\left\{\left\|\mathbf {Xw} \right\|^{2}\right\}=\arg \max _{\left\|\mathbf {w} \right\|=1}\left\{\mathbf {w} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {X} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {Xw} \right\}}
Principal component analysis — w ( 1 ) = arg ⁡ max { w T X T X w w T w } {\displaystyle \mathbf {w} _{(1)}=\arg \max \left\{{\frac {\mathbf {w} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {X} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {Xw} }{\mathbf {w} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {w} }}\right\}}
Principal component analysis — A standard result for a positive semidefinite matrix such as XTX is that the quotient's maximum possible value is the largest eigenvalue of the matrix, which occurs when w is the corresponding eigenvector.
Principal component analysis — With w(1) found, the first principal component of a data vector x(i) can then be given as a score t1(i) = x(i) ⋅ w(1) in the transformed co-ordinates, or as the corresponding vector in the original variables, {x(i) ⋅ w(1)} w(1).
Principal component analysis — === Further components === The k-th component can be found by subtracting the first k − 1 principal components from X:
Principal component analysis — X ^ k = X − ∑ s = 1 k − 1 X w ( s ) w ( s ) T {\displaystyle \mathbf {\hat {X}} _{k}=\mathbf {X} -\sum _{s=1}^{k-1}\mathbf {X} \mathbf {w} _{(s)}\mathbf {w} _{(s)}^{\mathsf {T}}}
Principal component analysis — and then finding the weight vector which extracts the maximum variance from this new data matrix
Principal component analysis — w ( k ) = a r g m a x ‖ w ‖ = 1 ⁡ { ‖ X ^ k w ‖ 2 } = arg ⁡ max { w T X ^ k T X ^ k w w T w } {\displaystyle \mathbf {w} _{(k)}=\mathop {\operatorname {arg\,max} } _{\left\|\mathbf {w} \right\|=1}\left\{\left\|\mathbf {\hat {X}} _{k}\mathbf {w} \right\|^{2}\right\}=\arg \max \left\{{\tfrac {\mathbf {w} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {\hat {X}} _{k}^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {\hat {X}} _{k}\mathbf {w} }{\mathbf {w} ^{T}\mathbf {w} }}\right\}}
Principal component analysis — It turns out that this gives the remaining eigenvectors of XTX, with the maximum values for the quantity in brackets given by their corresponding eigenvalues.
Principal component analysis — The k-th principal component of a data vector x(i) can therefore be given as a score tk(i) = x(i) ⋅ w(k) in the transformed coordinates, or as the corresponding vector in the space of the original variables, {x(i) ⋅ w(k)} w(k), where w(k) is the kth eigenvector of XTX.
Principal component analysis — where W is a p-by-p matrix of weights whose columns are the eigenvectors of XTX.
Principal component analysis — The transpose of W is sometimes called the whitening or sphering transformation.
Principal component analysis — Columns of W multiplied by the square root of corresponding eigenvalues, that is, eigenvectors scaled up by the variances, are called loadings in PCA or in Factor analysis.
Principal component analysis — === Covariances === XTX itself can be recognized as proportional to the empirical sample covariance matrix of the dataset XT.
Principal component analysis — The sample covariance Q between two of the different principal components over the dataset is given by:
Principal component analysis — Q ( P C ( j ) , P C ( k ) ) ∝ ( X w ( j ) ) T ( X w ( k ) ) = w ( j ) T X T X w ( k ) = w ( j ) T λ ( k ) w ( k ) = λ ( k ) w ( j ) T w ( k ) {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}Q(\mathrm {PC} _{(j)},\mathrm {PC} _{(k)})&\propto (\mathbf {X} \mathbf {w} _{(j)})^{\mathsf {T}}(\mathbf {X} \mathbf {w} _{(k)})\\&=\mathbf {w} _{(j)}^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {X} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {X} \mathbf {w} _{(k)}\\&=\mathbf {w} _{(j)}^{\mathsf {T}}\lambda _{(k)}\mathbf {w} _{(k)}\\&=\lambda _{(k)}\mathbf {w} _{(j)}^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {w} _{(k)}\end{aligned}}}
Principal component analysis — where the eigenvalue property of w(k) has been used to move from line 2 to line 3.
Principal component analysis — However eigenvectors w(j) and w(k) corresponding to eigenvalues of a symmetric matrix are orthogonal (if the eigenvalues are different), or can be orthogonalised (if the vectors happen to share an equal repeated value).
Principal component analysis — The product in the final line is therefore zero; there is no sample covariance between different principal components over the dataset.
Principal component analysis — Another way to characterise the principal components transformation is therefore as the transformation to coordinates which diagonalise the empirical sample covariance matrix.
Principal component analysis — In matrix form, the empirical covariance matrix for the original variables can be written
Principal component analysis — Q ∝ X T X = W Λ W T {\displaystyle \mathbf {Q} \propto \mathbf {X} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {X} =\mathbf {W} \mathbf {\Lambda } \mathbf {W} ^{\mathsf {T}}}
Principal component analysis — W T Q W ∝ W T W Λ W T W = Λ {\displaystyle \mathbf {W} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {Q} \mathbf {W} \propto \mathbf {W} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {W} \,\mathbf {\Lambda } \,\mathbf {W} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {W} =\mathbf {\Lambda } }
Principal component analysis — where Λ is the diagonal matrix of eigenvalues λ(k) of XTX. λ(k) is equal to the sum of the squares over the dataset associated with each component k, that is, λ(k) = Σi tk2(i) = Σi (x(i) ⋅ w(k))2.
Principal component analysis — === Dimensionality reduction === The transformation P = X W maps a data vector x(i) from an original space of x variables to a new space of p variables which are uncorrelated over the dataset.
Principal component analysis — To non-dimensionalize the centered data, let Xc represent the characteristic values of data vectors Xi, given by:
Principal component analysis — 1 n ‖ X ‖ 2 {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{\sqrt {n}}}\|X\|_{2}} (normalized Euclidean norm), for a dataset of size n.
Principal component analysis — These norms are used to transform the original space of variables x, y to a new space of uncorrelated variables p, q (given Yc with same meaning), such that p i = X i X c , q i = Y i Y c {\displaystyle p_{i}={\frac {X_{i}}{X_{c}}},\quad q_{i}={\frac {Y_{i}}{Y_{c}}}} ; and the new variables are linearly related as: q = α p {\displaystyle q=\alpha p} .
Principal component analysis — To find the optimal linear relationship, we minimize the total squared reconstruction error:
Principal component analysis — E ( α ) = 1 1 − α 2 ∑ i = 1 n ( α p i − q i ) 2 {\displaystyle E(\alpha )={\frac {1}{1-\alpha ^{2}}}\sum _{i=1}^{n}(\alpha p_{i}-q_{i})^{2}} ; such that setting the derivative of the error function to zero ( E ′ ( α ) = 0 ) {\displaystyle (E'(\alpha )=0)} yields: α = 1 2 ( − λ ± λ 2 + 4 ) {\displaystyle \alpha ={\frac {1}{2}}\left(-\lambda \pm {\sqrt {\lambda ^{2}+4}}\right)} where λ = p ⋅ p − q ⋅ q p ⋅ q {\displaystyle \lambda ={\frac {p\cdot p-q\cdot q}{p\cdot q}}} .
Principal component analysis — Such dimensionality reduction can be a very useful step for visualising and processing high-dimensional datasets, while still retaining as much of the variance in the dataset as possible.
Principal component analysis — For example, selecting L = 2 and keeping only the first two principal components finds the two-dimensional plane through the high-dimensional dataset in which the data is most spread out, so if the data contains clusters these too may be most spread out, and therefore most visible to be plotted out in a two-dimensional diagram; whereas if two directions through the data (or two of the original variables) are chosen at random, the clusters may be much less spread apart from each other, and may in fact be much more likely to substantially overlay each other, making them indistinguishable.
Principal component analysis — Similarly, in regression analysis, the larger the number of explanatory variables allowed, the greater is the chance of overfitting the model, producing conclusions that fail to generalise to other datasets.
Principal component analysis — One approach, especially when there are strong correlations between different possible explanatory variables, is to reduce them to a few principal components and then run the regression against them, a method called principal component regression.
Principal component analysis — Dimensionality reduction may also be appropriate when the variables in a dataset are noisy.
Principal component analysis — If each column of the dataset contains independent identically distributed Gaussian noise, then the columns of T will also contain similarly identically distributed Gaussian noise (such a distribution is invariant under the effects of the matrix W, which can be thought of as a high-dimensional rotation of the co-ordinate axes).
Principal component analysis — However, with more of the total variance concentrated in the first few principal components compared to the same noise variance, the proportionate effect of the noise is less—the first few components achieve a higher signal-to-noise ratio.
Principal component analysis — PCA thus can have the effect of concentrating much of the signal into the first few principal components, which can usefully be captured by dimensionality reduction; while the later principal components may be dominated by noise, and so disposed of without great loss.
Principal component analysis — If the dataset is not too large, the significance of the principal components can be tested using parametric bootstrap, as an aid in determining how many principal components to retain.
Principal component analysis — The principal components transformation can also be associated with another matrix factorization, the singular value decomposition (SVD) of X,
Principal component analysis — X = U Σ W T {\displaystyle \mathbf {X} =\mathbf {U} \mathbf {\Sigma } \mathbf {W} ^{T}}
Principal component analysis — Here Σ is an n-by-p rectangular diagonal matrix of positive numbers σ(k), called the singular values of X; U is an n-by-n matrix, the columns of which are orthogonal unit vectors of length n called the left singular vectors of X; and W is a p-by-p matrix whose columns are orthogonal unit vectors of length p and called the right singular vectors of X.
Principal component analysis — X T X = W Σ T U T U Σ W T = W Σ T Σ W T = W Σ ^ 2 W T {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\mathbf {X} ^{T}\mathbf {X} &=\mathbf {W} \mathbf {\Sigma } ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {U} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {U} \mathbf {\Sigma } \mathbf {W} ^{\mathsf {T}}\\&=\mathbf {W} \mathbf {\Sigma } ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {\Sigma } \mathbf {W} ^{\mathsf {T}}\\&=\mathbf {W} \mathbf {\hat {\Sigma }} ^{2}\mathbf {W} ^{\mathsf {T}}\end{aligned}}}
Principal component analysis — where Σ ^ {\displaystyle \mathbf {\hat {\Sigma }} } is the square diagonal matrix with the singular values of X and the excess zeros chopped off that satisfies Σ ^ 2 = Σ T Σ {\displaystyle \mathbf {{\hat {\Sigma }}^{2}} =\mathbf {\Sigma } ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {\Sigma } } .
Principal component analysis — Comparison with the eigenvector factorization of XTX establishes that the right singular vectors W of X are equivalent to the eigenvectors of XTX, while the singular values σ(k) of X {\displaystyle \mathbf {X} } are equal to the square-root of the eigenvalues λ(k) of XTX.
Principal component analysis — T = X W = U Σ W T W = U Σ {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\mathbf {T} &=\mathbf {X} \mathbf {W} \\&=\mathbf {U} \mathbf {\Sigma } \mathbf {W} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {W} \\&=\mathbf {U} \mathbf {\Sigma } \end{aligned}}}
Principal component analysis — so each column of T is given by one of the left singular vectors of X multiplied by the corresponding singular value.
Principal component analysis — Efficient algorithms exist to calculate the SVD of X without having to form the matrix XTX, so computing the SVD is now the standard way to calculate a principal components analysis from a data matrix, unless only a handful of components are required.
Principal component analysis — As with the eigen-decomposition, a truncated n × L score matrix TL can be obtained by considering only the first L largest singular values and their singular vectors:
Principal component analysis — T L = U L Σ L = X W L {\displaystyle \mathbf {T} _{L}=\mathbf {U} _{L}\mathbf {\Sigma } _{L}=\mathbf {X} \mathbf {W} _{L}}
Principal component analysis — The truncation of a matrix M or T using a truncated singular value decomposition in this way produces a truncated matrix that is the nearest possible matrix of rank L to the original matrix, in the sense of the difference between the two having the smallest possible Frobenius norm, a result known as the Eckart–Young theorem [1936].
Principal component analysis — Let P be an n×m data matrix whose columns have been mean‑centered and scaled, and let
Principal component analysis — P = U Σ V T {\displaystyle P=U\,\Sigma \,V^{T}} be its singular value decomposition.
Principal component analysis — Then the best rank‑k approximation to P in the least‑squares (Frobenius‑norm) sense is
Principal component analysis — P k = U k Σ k V k T {\displaystyle P_{k}=U_{k}\,\Sigma _{k}\,V_{k}^{T}} , where Vk consists of the first k columns of V.
Principal component analysis — R ( k ) = ∑ j = k + 1 m σ j 2 ∑ j = 1 m σ j 2 {\displaystyle R(k)={\frac {\sum _{j=k+1}^{m}\sigma _{j}^{2}}{\sum _{j=1}^{m}\sigma _{j}^{2}}}} .
Principal component analysis — == Further considerations == The singular values (in Σ) are the square roots of the eigenvalues of the matrix XTX.
Principal component analysis — Each eigenvalue is proportional to the portion of the "variance" (more correctly of the sum of the squared distances of the points from their multidimensional mean) that is associated with each eigenvector.
Principal component analysis — The sum of all the eigenvalues is equal to the sum of the squared distances of the points from their multidimensional mean.
Principal component analysis — PCA essentially rotates the set of points around their mean in order to align with the principal components.
Principal component analysis — This moves as much of the variance as possible (using an orthogonal transformation) into the first few dimensions.
Principal component analysis — The values in the remaining dimensions, therefore, tend to be small and may be dropped with minimal loss of information (see below).
Principal component analysis — PCA has the distinction of being the optimal orthogonal transformation for keeping the subspace that has largest "variance" (as defined above).
Principal component analysis — This advantage, however, comes at the price of greater computational requirements if compared, for example, and when applicable, to the discrete cosine transform, and in particular to the DCT-II which is simply known as the "DCT".
Principal component analysis — Nonlinear dimensionality reduction techniques tend to be more computationally demanding than PCA.
Principal component analysis — Mathematically this sensitivity comes from the way a rescaling changes the sample‑covariance matrix that PCA diagonalises.
Principal component analysis — Let X c {\displaystyle \mathbf {X} _{\text{c}}} be the *centered* data matrix (n rows, p columns) and define the covariance
Principal component analysis — Σ = 1 n X c T X c . {\displaystyle \Sigma ={\frac {1}{n}}\,\mathbf {X} _{\text{c}}^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {X} _{\text{c}}.}
Principal component analysis — If the j {\displaystyle j} ‑th variable is multiplied by a factor α j {\displaystyle \alpha _{j}} we obtain
Principal component analysis — X c ( α ) = X c D , D = diag ⁡ ( α 1 , … , α p ) . {\displaystyle \mathbf {X} _{\text{c}}^{(\alpha )}=\mathbf {X} _{\text{c}}D,\qquad D=\operatorname {diag} (\alpha _{1},\ldots ,\alpha _{p}).} Hence the new covariance is
Principal component analysis — Σ ( α ) = D T Σ D . {\displaystyle \Sigma ^{(\alpha )}=D^{\mathsf {T}}\,\Sigma \,D.}
Principal component analysis — Because the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of Σ ( α ) {\displaystyle \Sigma ^{(\alpha )}} are those of Σ {\displaystyle \Sigma } scaled by D {\displaystyle D} , the principal axes rotate toward any column whose variance has been inflated, exactly as the 2‑D example below illustrates.
Principal component analysis — If we have just two variables and they have the same sample variance and are completely correlated, then the PCA will entail a rotation by 45° and the "weights" (they are the cosines of rotation) for the two variables with respect to the principal component will be equal.
Principal component analysis — But if we multiply all values of the first variable by 100, then the first principal component will be almost the same as that variable, with a small contribution from the other variable, whereas the second component will be almost aligned with the second original variable.
Principal component analysis — This means that whenever the different variables have different units (like temperature and mass), PCA is a somewhat arbitrary method of analysis. (Different results would be obtained if one used Fahrenheit rather than Celsius for example.) Pearson's original paper was entitled "On Lines and Planes of Closest Fit to Systems of Points in Space" – "in space" implies physical Euclidean space where such concerns do not arise.
Principal component analysis — One way of making the PCA less arbitrary is to use variables scaled so as to have unit variance, by standardizing the data and hence use the autocorrelation matrix instead of the autocovariance matrix as a basis for PCA.
Principal component analysis — However, this compresses (or expands) the fluctuations in all dimensions of the signal space to unit variance.
Principal component analysis — Classical PCA assumes the cloud of points has already been translated so its centroid is at the origin.
Principal component analysis — q i = μ + z i , μ = 1 n ∑ i = 1 n q i . {\displaystyle \mathbf {q} _{i}={\boldsymbol {\mu }}+\mathbf {z} _{i},\qquad {\boldsymbol {\mu }}={\tfrac {1}{n}}\sum _{i=1}^{n}\mathbf {q} _{i}.}
Principal component analysis — Without subtracting μ {\displaystyle {\boldsymbol {\mu }}} we are in effect diagonalising
Principal component analysis — Σ unc = n μ μ T + 1 n Z T Z , {\displaystyle \Sigma _{\text{unc}}\;=\;n\,{\boldsymbol {\mu }}{\boldsymbol {\mu }}^{\mathsf {T}}\;+\;{\tfrac {1}{n}}\,\mathbf {Z} ^{\mathsf {T}}\mathbf {Z} ,}
Principal component analysis — The rank‑one term n μ μ T {\displaystyle n\,{\boldsymbol {\mu }}{\boldsymbol {\mu }}^{\mathsf {T}}} often dominates, forcing the leading eigenvector to point almost exactly toward the mean and obliterating any structure in the centred part Z {\displaystyle \mathbf {Z} } .
Principal component analysis — After mean subtraction that term vanishes and the principal axes align with the true directions of maximal variance.
Principal component analysis — Mean-centering is unnecessary if performing a principal components analysis on a correlation matrix, as the data are already centered after calculating correlations.
Principal component analysis — Correlations are derived from the cross-product of two standard scores (Z-scores) or statistical moments (hence the name: Pearson Product-Moment Correlation).
Principal component analysis — Also see the article by Kromrey & Foster-Johnson (1998) on "Mean-centering in Moderated Regression: Much Ado About Nothing".
Principal component analysis — Since covariances are correlations of normalized variables (Z- or standard-scores) a PCA based on the correlation matrix of X is equal to a PCA based on the covariance matrix of Z, the standardized version of X.
Principal component analysis — However, it has been used to quantify the distance between two or more classes by calculating center of mass for each class in principal component space and reporting Euclidean distance between center of mass of two or more classes.
Principal component analysis — The linear discriminant analysis is an alternative which is optimized for class separability.
Principal component analysis — Property 1: For any integer q, 1 ≤ q ≤ p, consider the orthogonal linear transformation
Principal component analysis — where y {\displaystyle y} is a q-element vector and B ′ {\displaystyle \mathbf {B'} } is a (q × p) matrix, and let Σ y = B ′ Σ B {\displaystyle \mathbf {\Sigma } _{y}=\mathbf {B'} \mathbf {\Sigma } \mathbf {B} } be the variance-covariance matrix for y {\displaystyle y} .
Principal component analysis — Then the trace of Σ y {\displaystyle \mathbf {\Sigma } _{y}} , denoted tr ⁡ ( Σ y ) {\displaystyle \operatorname {tr} (\mathbf {\Sigma } _{y})} , is maximized by taking B = A q {\displaystyle \mathbf {B} =\mathbf {A} _{q}} , where A q {\displaystyle \mathbf {A} _{q}} consists of the first q columns of A {\displaystyle \mathbf {A} } ( B ′ {\displaystyle (\mathbf {B'} } is the transpose of B ) {\displaystyle \mathbf {B} )} . ( A {\displaystyle \mathbf {A} } is not defined here) Property 2: Consider again the orthonormal transformation
Principal component analysis — with x , B , A {\displaystyle x,\mathbf {B} ,\mathbf {A} } and Σ y {\displaystyle \mathbf {\Sigma } _{y}} defined as before.
Principal component analysis — Then tr ⁡ ( Σ y ) {\displaystyle \operatorname {tr} (\mathbf {\Sigma } _{y})} is minimized by taking B = A q ∗ , {\displaystyle \mathbf {B} =\mathbf {A} _{q}^{*},} where A q ∗ {\displaystyle \mathbf {A} _{q}^{*}} consists of the last q columns of A {\displaystyle \mathbf {A} } .
Principal component analysis — The statistical implication of this property is that the last few PCs are not simply unstructured left-overs after removing the important PCs.
Principal component analysis — Because these last PCs have variances as small as possible they are useful in their own right.
Principal component analysis — They can help to detect unsuspected near-constant linear relationships between the elements of x, and they may also be useful in regression, in selecting a subset of variables from x, and in outlier detection.
Principal component analysis — Σ = λ 1 α 1 α 1 ′ + ⋯ + λ p α p α p ′ {\displaystyle \mathbf {\Sigma } =\lambda _{1}\alpha _{1}\alpha _{1}'+\cdots +\lambda _{p}\alpha _{p}\alpha _{p}'}
Principal component analysis — Var ⁡ ( x j ) = ∑ k = 1 P λ k α k j 2 {\displaystyle \operatorname {Var} (x_{j})=\sum _{k=1}^{P}\lambda _{k}\alpha _{kj}^{2}}
Principal component analysis — Then, perhaps the main statistical implication of the result is that not only can we decompose the combined variances of all the elements of x into decreasing contributions due to each PC, but we can also decompose the whole covariance matrix into contributions λ k α k α k ′ {\displaystyle \lambda _{k}\alpha _{k}\alpha _{k}'} from each PC.
Principal component analysis — Although not strictly decreasing, the elements of λ k α k α k ′ {\displaystyle \lambda _{k}\alpha _{k}\alpha _{k}'} will tend to become smaller as k {\displaystyle k} increases, as λ k α k α k ′ {\displaystyle \lambda _{k}\alpha _{k}\alpha _{k}'} is nonincreasing for increasing k {\displaystyle k} , whereas the elements of α k {\displaystyle \alpha _{k}} tend to stay about the same size because of the normalization constraints: α k ′ α k = 1 , k = 1 , … , p {\displaystyle \alpha _{k}'\alpha _{k}=1,k=1,\dots ,p} .
Principal component analysis — === Limitations === As noted above, the results of PCA depend on the scaling of the variables.
Principal component analysis — This can be cured by scaling each feature by its standard deviation, so that one ends up with dimensionless features with unital variance.
Principal component analysis — The applicability of PCA as described above is limited by certain (tacit) assumptions made in its derivation.
Principal component analysis — In particular, PCA can capture linear correlations between the features but fails when this assumption is violated (see Figure 6a in the reference).
Principal component analysis — In some cases, coordinate transformations can restore the linearity assumption and PCA can then be applied (see kernel PCA).
Principal component analysis — Another limitation is the mean-removal process before constructing the covariance matrix for PCA.
Principal component analysis — In fields such as astronomy, all the signals are non-negative, and the mean-removal process will force the mean of some astrophysical exposures to be zero, which consequently creates unphysical negative fluxes, and forward modeling has to be performed to recover the true magnitude of the signals.
Principal component analysis — As an alternative method, non-negative matrix factorization focusing only on the non-negative elements in the matrices is well-suited for astrophysical observations.
Principal component analysis — PCA is at a disadvantage if the data has not been standardized before applying the algorithm to it.
Principal component analysis — PCA transforms the original data into data that is relevant to the principal components of that data, which means that the new data variables cannot be interpreted in the same ways that the originals were.
Principal component analysis — Also, if PCA is not performed properly, there is a high likelihood of information loss.
Principal component analysis — If a dataset has a pattern hidden inside it that is nonlinear, then PCA can actually steer the analysis in the complete opposite direction of progress.
Principal component analysis — Researchers at Kansas State University discovered that the sampling error in their experiments impacted the bias of PCA results. "If the number of subjects or blocks is smaller than 30, and/or the researcher is interested in PC's beyond the first, it may be better to first correct for the serial correlation, before PCA is conducted".
Principal component analysis — The researchers at Kansas State also found that PCA could be "seriously biased if the autocorrelation structure of the data is not correctly handled".
Principal component analysis — === PCA and information theory === Dimensionality reduction results in a loss of information, in general.
Principal component analysis — PCA-based dimensionality reduction tends to minimize that information loss, under certain signal and noise models.
Principal component analysis — that is, that the data vector x {\displaystyle \mathbf {x} } is the sum of the desired information-bearing signal s {\displaystyle \mathbf {s} } and a noise signal n {\displaystyle \mathbf {n} } one can show that PCA can be optimal for dimensionality reduction, from an information-theoretic point-of-view.
Principal component analysis — In particular, Linsker showed that if s {\displaystyle \mathbf {s} } is Gaussian and n {\displaystyle \mathbf {n} } is Gaussian noise with a covariance matrix proportional to the identity matrix, the PCA maximizes the mutual information I ( y ; s ) {\displaystyle I(\mathbf {y} ;\mathbf {s} )} between the desired information s {\displaystyle \mathbf {s} } and the dimensionality-reduced output y = W L T x {\displaystyle \mathbf {y} =\mathbf {W} _{L}^{T}\mathbf {x} } .
Principal component analysis — If the noise is still Gaussian and has a covariance matrix proportional to the identity matrix (that is, the components of the vector n {\displaystyle \mathbf {n} } are iid), but the information-bearing signal s {\displaystyle \mathbf {s} } is non-Gaussian (which is a common scenario), PCA at least minimizes an upper bound on the information loss, which is defined as
Principal component analysis — I ( x ; s ) − I ( y ; s ) . {\displaystyle I(\mathbf {x} ;\mathbf {s} )-I(\mathbf {y} ;\mathbf {s} ).}
Principal component analysis — The optimality of PCA is also preserved if the noise n {\displaystyle \mathbf {n} } is iid and at least more Gaussian (in terms of the Kullback–Leibler divergence) than the information-bearing signal s {\displaystyle \mathbf {s} } .
Principal component analysis — In general, even if the above signal model holds, PCA loses its information-theoretic optimality as soon as the noise n {\displaystyle \mathbf {n} } becomes dependent.
Principal component analysis — == Computation using the covariance method == The following is a detailed description of PCA using the covariance method as opposed to the correlation method.
Principal component analysis — The goal is to transform a given data set X of dimension p to an alternative data set Y of smaller dimension L.
Principal component analysis — Equivalently, we are seeking to find the matrix Y, where Y is the Karhunen–Loève transform (KLT) of matrix X:
Principal component analysis — Suppose you have data comprising a set of observations of p variables, and you want to reduce the data so that each observation can be described with only L variables, L < p.
Principal component analysis — Suppose further, that the data are arranged as a set of n data vectors x 1 … x n {\displaystyle \mathbf {x} _{1}\ldots \mathbf {x} _{n}} with each x i {\displaystyle \mathbf {x} _{i}} representing a single grouped observation of the p variables.
Principal component analysis — Write x 1 … x n {\displaystyle \mathbf {x} _{1}\ldots \mathbf {x} _{n}} as row vectors, each with p elements.
Principal component analysis — Place the calculated mean values into an empirical mean vector u of dimensions p × 1. u j = 1 n ∑ i = 1 n X i j {\displaystyle u_{j}={\frac {1}{n}}\sum _{i=1}^{n}X_{ij}}
Principal component analysis — Mean subtraction is an integral part of the solution towards finding a principal component basis that minimizes the mean square error of approximating the data.
Principal component analysis — Subtract the empirical mean vector u T {\displaystyle \mathbf {u} ^{T}} from each row of the data matrix X.
Principal component analysis — B = X − h u T {\displaystyle \mathbf {B} =\mathbf {X} -\mathbf {h} \mathbf {u} ^{T}} where h is an n × 1 column vector of all 1s: h i = 1 for i = 1 , … , n {\displaystyle h_{i}=1\,\qquad \qquad {\text{for }}i=1,\ldots ,n}
Principal component analysis — In some applications, each variable (column of B) may also be scaled to have a variance equal to 1 (see Z-score).
Principal component analysis — This step affects the calculated principal components, but makes them independent of the units used to measure the different variables.
Principal component analysis — Find the p × p empirical covariance matrix C from matrix B: C = 1 n − 1 B ∗ B {\displaystyle \mathbf {C} ={1 \over {n-1}}\mathbf {B} ^{*}\mathbf {B} } where ∗ {\displaystyle *} is the conjugate transpose operator.
Principal component analysis — If B consists entirely of real numbers, which is the case in many applications, the "conjugate transpose" is the same as the regular transpose.
Principal component analysis — The reasoning behind using n − 1 instead of n to calculate the covariance is Bessel's correction.
Principal component analysis — Compute the matrix V of eigenvectors which diagonalizes the covariance matrix C: V − 1 C V = D {\displaystyle \mathbf {V} ^{-1}\mathbf {C} \mathbf {V} =\mathbf {D} } where D is the diagonal matrix of eigenvalues of C.
Principal component analysis — This step will typically involve the use of a computer-based algorithm for computing eigenvectors and eigenvalues.
Principal component analysis — These algorithms are readily available as sub-components of most matrix algebra systems, such as SAS, R, MATLAB, Mathematica, SciPy, IDL (Interactive Data Language), or GNU Octave as well as OpenCV.
Principal component analysis — Matrix D will take the form of an p × p diagonal matrix, where D k ℓ = λ k for k = ℓ {\displaystyle D_{k\ell }=\lambda _{k}\qquad {\text{for }}k=\ell } is the jth eigenvalue of the covariance matrix C, and D k ℓ = 0 for k ≠ ℓ . {\displaystyle D_{k\ell }=0\qquad {\text{for }}k\neq \ell .}
Principal component analysis — Matrix V, also of dimension p × p, contains p column vectors, each of length p, which represent the p eigenvectors of the covariance matrix C.
Principal component analysis — Matrix V denotes the matrix of right eigenvectors (as opposed to left eigenvectors).
Principal component analysis — In general, the matrix of right eigenvectors need not be the (conjugate) transpose of the matrix of left eigenvectors.
Principal component analysis — Sort the columns of the eigenvector matrix V and eigenvalue matrix D in order of decreasing eigenvalue.
Principal component analysis — Compute the cumulative energy content for each eigenvector The eigenvalues represent the distribution of the source data's energy among each of the eigenvectors, where the eigenvectors form a basis for the data.
Principal component analysis — The cumulative energy content g for the jth eigenvector is the sum of the energy content across all of the eigenvalues from 1 through j divided by the sum of energy content across all eigenvalues (shown in step 8): g j = ∑ k = 1 j D k k for j = 1 , … , p {\displaystyle g_{j}=\sum _{k=1}^{j}D_{kk}\qquad {\text{for }}j=1,\dots ,p}
Principal component analysis — Save the first L columns of V as the p × L matrix W: W k l = V k ℓ for k = 1 , … , p ℓ = 1 , … , L {\displaystyle W_{kl}=V_{k\ell }\qquad {\text{for }}k=1,\dots ,p\qquad \ell =1,\dots ,L} where 1 ≤ L ≤ p . {\displaystyle 1\leq L\leq p.}
Principal component analysis — The goal is to choose a value of L as small as possible while achieving a reasonably high value of g on a percentage basis.
Principal component analysis — For example, you may want to choose L so that the cumulative energy g is above a certain threshold, like 90 percent.
Principal component analysis — In this case, choose the smallest value of L such that g L g p ≥ 0.9 {\displaystyle {\frac {g_{L}}{g_{p}}}\geq 0.9}
Principal component analysis — The projected data points are the rows of the matrix T = B ⋅ W {\displaystyle \mathbf {T} =\mathbf {B} \cdot \mathbf {W} }
Principal component analysis — That is, the first column of T {\displaystyle \mathbf {T} } is the projection of the data points onto the first principal component, the second column is the projection onto the second principal component, etc.
Principal component analysis — == Derivation using the covariance method == Let X be a d-dimensional random vector expressed as column vector.
Principal component analysis — We want to find ( ∗ ) {\displaystyle (\ast )} a d × d orthonormal transformation matrix P so that PX has a diagonal covariance matrix (that is, PX is a random vector with all its distinct components pairwise uncorrelated).
Principal component analysis — cov ⁡ ( P X ) = E ⁡ [ P X ( P X ) ∗ ] = E ⁡ [ P X X ∗ P ∗ ] = P E ⁡ [ X X ∗ ] P ∗ = P cov ⁡ ( X ) P − 1 {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\operatorname {cov} (PX)&=\operatorname {E} [PX~(PX)^{*}]\\&=\operatorname {E} [PX~X^{*}P^{*}]\\&=P\operatorname {E} [XX^{*}]P^{*}\\&=P\operatorname {cov} (X)P^{-1}\\\end{aligned}}}
Principal component analysis — Hence ( ∗ ) {\displaystyle (\ast )} holds if and only if cov ⁡ ( X ) {\displaystyle \operatorname {cov} (X)} were diagonalisable by P {\displaystyle P} .
Principal component analysis — This is very constructive, as cov(X) is guaranteed to be a non-negative definite matrix and thus is guaranteed to be diagonalisable by some unitary matrix.
Principal component analysis — == Covariance-free computation == In practical implementations, especially with high dimensional data (large p), the naive covariance method is rarely used because it is not efficient due to high computational and memory costs of explicitly determining the covariance matrix.
Principal component analysis — The covariance-free approach avoids the np2 operations of explicitly calculating and storing the covariance matrix XTX, instead utilizing one of matrix-free methods, for example, based on the function evaluating the product XT(X r) at the cost of 2np operations.
Principal component analysis — === Iterative computation === One way to compute the first principal component efficiently is shown in the following pseudo-code, for a data matrix X with zero mean, without ever computing its covariance matrix.
Principal component analysis — r = a random vector of length p r = r / norm(r) do c times: s = 0 (a vector of length p) for each row x in X s = s + (x ⋅ r) x λ = rTs // λ is the eigenvalue error = |λ ⋅ r − s| r = s / norm(s) exit if error < tolerance return λ, r
Principal component analysis — This power iteration algorithm simply calculates the vector XT(X r), normalizes, and places the result back in r.
Principal component analysis — The eigenvalue is approximated by rT (XTX) r, which is the Rayleigh quotient on the unit vector r for the covariance matrix XTX .
Principal component analysis — If the largest singular value is well separated from the next largest one, the vector r gets close to the first principal component of X within the number of iterations c, which is small relative to p, at the total cost 2cnp.
Principal component analysis — The power iteration convergence can be accelerated without noticeably sacrificing the small cost per iteration using more advanced matrix-free methods, such as the Lanczos algorithm or the Locally Optimal Block Preconditioned Conjugate Gradient (LOBPCG) method.
Principal component analysis — Subsequent principal components can be computed one-by-one via deflation or simultaneously as a block.
Principal component analysis — In the former approach, imprecisions in already computed approximate principal components additively affect the accuracy of the subsequently computed principal components, thus increasing the error with every new computation.
Principal component analysis — The latter approach in the block power method replaces single-vectors r and s with block-vectors, matrices R and S.
Principal component analysis — Every column of R approximates one of the leading principal components, while all columns are iterated simultaneously.
Principal component analysis — Implemented, for example, in LOBPCG, efficient blocking eliminates the accumulation of the errors, allows using high-level BLAS matrix-matrix product functions, and typically leads to faster convergence, compared to the single-vector one-by-one technique.
Principal component analysis — === The NIPALS method === Non-linear iterative partial least squares (NIPALS) is a variant the classical power iteration with matrix deflation by subtraction implemented for computing the first few components in a principal component or partial least squares analysis.
Principal component analysis — For very-high-dimensional datasets, such as those generated in the *omics sciences (for example, genomics, metabolomics) it is usually only necessary to compute the first few PCs.
Principal component analysis — The non-linear iterative partial least squares (NIPALS) algorithm updates iterative approximations to the leading scores and loadings t1 and r1T by the power iteration multiplying on every iteration by X on the left and on the right, that is, calculation of the covariance matrix is avoided, just as in the matrix-free implementation of the power iterations to XTX, based on the function evaluating the product XT(X r) = ((X r)TX)T.
Principal component analysis — The matrix deflation by subtraction is performed by subtracting the outer product, t1r1T from X leaving the deflated residual matrix used to calculate the subsequent leading PCs.
Principal component analysis — For large data matrices, or matrices that have a high degree of column collinearity, NIPALS suffers from loss of orthogonality of PCs due to machine precision round-off errors accumulated in each iteration and matrix deflation by subtraction.
Principal component analysis — A Gram–Schmidt re-orthogonalization algorithm is applied to both the scores and the loadings at each iteration step to eliminate this loss of orthogonality.
Principal component analysis — NIPALS reliance on single-vector multiplications cannot take advantage of high-level BLAS and results in slow convergence for clustered leading singular values—both these deficiencies are resolved in more sophisticated matrix-free block solvers, such as the Locally Optimal Block Preconditioned Conjugate Gradient (LOBPCG) method.
Principal component analysis — === Online/sequential estimation === In an "online" or "streaming" situation with data arriving piece by piece rather than being stored in a single batch, it is useful to make an estimate of the PCA projection that can be updated sequentially.
Principal component analysis — == Qualitative variables == In PCA, it is common that we want to introduce qualitative variables as supplementary elements.
Principal component analysis — For these plants, some qualitative variables are available as, for example, the species to which the plant belongs.
Principal component analysis — When analyzing the results, it is natural to connect the principal components to the qualitative variable species.
Principal component analysis — Identification, on the factorial planes, of the different species, for example, using different colors.
Principal component analysis — Representation, on the factorial planes, of the centers of gravity of plants belonging to the same species.
Principal component analysis — For each center of gravity and each axis, p-value to judge the significance of the difference between the center of gravity and origin.
Principal component analysis — These results are what is called introducing a qualitative variable as supplementary element.
Principal component analysis — This is the case of SPAD that historically, following the work of Ludovic Lebart, was the first to propose this option, and the R package FactoMineR.
Principal component analysis — === Intelligence === The earliest application of factor analysis was in locating and measuring components of human intelligence.
Principal component analysis — It was believed that intelligence had various uncorrelated components such as spatial intelligence, verbal intelligence, induction, deduction etc and that scores on these could be adduced by factor analysis from results on various tests, to give a single index known as the Intelligence Quotient (IQ).
Principal component analysis — The pioneering statistical psychologist Spearman actually developed factor analysis in 1904 for his two-factor theory of intelligence, adding a formal technique to the science of psychometrics.
Principal component analysis — In 1924 Thurstone looked for 56 factors of intelligence, developing the notion of Mental Age.
Principal component analysis — === Residential differentiation === In 1949, Shevky and Williams introduced the theory of factorial ecology, which dominated studies of residential differentiation from the 1950s to the 1970s.
Principal component analysis — Neighbourhoods in a city were recognizable or could be distinguished from one another by various characteristics which could be reduced to three by factor analysis.
Principal component analysis — These were known as 'social rank' (an index of occupational status), 'familism' or family size, and 'ethnicity'; Cluster analysis could then be applied to divide the city into clusters or precincts according to values of the three key factor variables.
Principal component analysis — An extensive literature developed around factorial ecology in urban geography, but the approach went out of fashion after 1980 as being methodologically primitive and having little place in postmodern geographical paradigms.
Principal component analysis — One of the problems with factor analysis has always been finding convincing names for the various artificial factors.
Principal component analysis — In 2000, Flood revived the factorial ecology approach to show that principal components analysis actually gave meaningful answers directly, without resorting to factor rotation.
Principal component analysis — The principal components were actually dual variables or shadow prices of 'forces' pushing people together or apart in cities.
Principal component analysis — The first component was 'accessibility', the classic trade-off between demand for travel and demand for space, around which classical urban economics is based.
Principal component analysis — The next two components were 'disadvantage', which keeps people of similar status in separate neighbourhoods (mediated by planning), and ethnicity, where people of similar ethnic backgrounds try to co-locate.
Principal component analysis — About the same time, the Australian Bureau of Statistics defined distinct indexes of advantage and disadvantage taking the first principal component of sets of key variables that were thought to be important.
Principal component analysis — These SEIFA indexes are regularly published for various jurisdictions, and are used frequently in spatial analysis.
Principal component analysis — === Development indexes === PCA can be used as a formal method for the development of indexes.
Principal component analysis — As an alternative confirmatory composite analysis has been proposed to develop and assess indexes.
Principal component analysis — The City Development Index was developed by PCA from about 200 indicators of city outcomes in a 1996 survey of 254 global cities.
Principal component analysis — The first principal component was subject to iterative regression, adding the original variables singly until about 90% of its variation was accounted for.
Principal component analysis — The index ultimately used about 15 indicators but was a good predictor of many more variables.
Principal component analysis — Its comparative value agreed very well with a subjective assessment of the condition of each city.
Principal component analysis — The coefficients on items of infrastructure were roughly proportional to the average costs of providing the underlying services, suggesting the Index was actually a measure of effective physical and social investment in the city.
Principal component analysis — The country-level Human Development Index (HDI) from UNDP, which has been published since 1990 and is very extensively used in development studies, has very similar coefficients on similar indicators, strongly suggesting it was originally constructed using PCA.
Principal component analysis — === Population genetics === In 1978 Cavalli-Sforza and others pioneered the use of principal components analysis (PCA) to summarise data on variation in human gene frequencies across regions.
Principal component analysis — The components showed distinctive patterns, including gradients and sinusoidal waves.
Principal component analysis — They interpreted these patterns as resulting from specific ancient migration events.
Principal component analysis — Since then, PCA has been ubiquitous in population genetics, with thousands of papers using PCA as a display mechanism.
Principal component analysis — Genetics varies largely according to proximity, so the first two principal components actually show spatial distribution and may be used to map the relative geographical location of different population groups, thereby showing individuals who have wandered from their original locations.
Principal component analysis — PCA in genetics has been technically controversial, in that the technique has been performed on discrete non-normal variables and often on binary allele markers.
Principal component analysis — The lack of any measures of standard error in PCA are also an impediment to more consistent usage.
Principal component analysis — In August 2022, the molecular biologist Eran Elhaik published a theoretical paper in Scientific Reports analyzing 12 PCA applications.
Principal component analysis — He concluded that it was easy to manipulate the method, which, in his view, generated results that were 'erroneous, contradictory, and absurd.' Specifically, he argued, the results achieved in population genetics were characterized by cherry-picking and circular reasoning.
Principal component analysis — === Market research and indexes of attitude === Market research has been an extensive user of PCA.
Principal component analysis — It is used to develop customer satisfaction or customer loyalty scores for products, and with clustering, to develop market segments that may be targeted with advertising campaigns, in much the same way as factorial ecology will locate geographical areas with similar characteristics.
Principal component analysis — PCA rapidly transforms large amounts of data into smaller, easier-to-digest variables that can be more rapidly and readily analyzed.
Principal component analysis — In any consumer questionnaire, there are series of questions designed to elicit consumer attitudes, and principal components seek out latent variables underlying these attitudes.
Principal component analysis — For example, the Oxford Internet Survey in 2013 asked 2000 people about their attitudes and beliefs, and from these analysts extracted four principal component dimensions, which they identified as 'escape', 'social networking', 'efficiency', and 'problem creating'.
Principal component analysis — Another example from Joe Flood in 2008 extracted an attitudinal index toward housing from 28 attitude questions in a national survey of 2697 households in Australia.
Principal component analysis — The first principal component represented a general attitude toward property and home ownership.
Principal component analysis — The index, or the attitude questions it embodied, could be fed into a General Linear Model of tenure choice.
Principal component analysis — The strongest determinant of private renting by far was the attitude index, rather than income, marital status or household type.
Principal component analysis — === Quantitative finance === In quantitative finance, PCA is used in financial risk management, and has been applied to other problems such as portfolio optimization.
Principal component analysis — PCA is commonly used in problems involving fixed income securities and portfolios, and interest rate derivatives.
Principal component analysis — Valuations here depend on the entire yield curve, comprising numerous highly correlated instruments, and PCA is used to define a set of components or factors that explain rate movements, thereby facilitating the modelling.
Principal component analysis — One common risk management application is to calculating value at risk, VaR, applying PCA to the Monte Carlo simulation.
Principal component analysis — Here, for each simulation-sample, the components are stressed, and rates, and in turn option values, are then reconstructed; with VaR calculated, finally, over the entire run.
Principal component analysis — PCA is also used in hedging exposure to interest rate risk, given partial durations and other sensitivities.
Principal component analysis — Under both, the first three, typically, principal components of the system are of interest (representing "shift", "twist", and "curvature").
Principal component analysis — These principal components are derived from an eigen-decomposition of the covariance matrix of yield at predefined maturities;
Principal component analysis — and where the variance of each component is its eigenvalue (and as the components are orthogonal, no correlation need be incorporated in subsequent modelling).
Principal component analysis — For equity, an optimal portfolio is one where the expected return is maximized for a given level of risk, or alternatively, where risk is minimized for a given return; see Markowitz model for discussion.
Principal component analysis — Thus, one approach is to reduce portfolio risk, where allocation strategies are applied to the "principal portfolios" instead of the underlying stocks.
Principal component analysis — A second approach is to enhance portfolio return, using the principal components to select companies' stocks with upside potential.
Principal component analysis — PCA has also been used to understand relationships between international equity markets, and within markets between groups of companies in industries or sectors.
Principal component analysis — PCA may also be applied to stress testing, essentially an analysis of a bank's ability to endure a hypothetical adverse economic scenario.
Principal component analysis — Its utility is in "distilling the information contained in [several] macroeconomic variables into a more manageable data set, which can then [be used] for analysis." Here, the resulting factors are linked to e.g. interest rates – based on the largest elements of the factor's eigenvector – and it is then observed how a "shock" to each of the factors affects the implied assets of each of the banks.
Principal component analysis — === Neuroscience === A variant of principal components analysis is used in neuroscience to identify the specific properties of a stimulus that increases a neuron's probability of generating an action potential.
Principal component analysis — In a typical application an experimenter presents a white noise process as a stimulus (usually either as a sensory input to a test subject, or as a current injected directly into the neuron) and records a train of action potentials, or spikes, produced by the neuron as a result.
Principal component analysis — Presumably, certain features of the stimulus make the neuron more likely to spike.
Principal component analysis — In order to extract these features, the experimenter calculates the covariance matrix of the spike-triggered ensemble, the set of all stimuli (defined and discretized over a finite time window, typically on the order of 100 ms) that immediately preceded a spike.
Principal component analysis — The eigenvectors of the difference between the spike-triggered covariance matrix and the covariance matrix of the prior stimulus ensemble (the set of all stimuli, defined over the same length time window) then indicate the directions in the space of stimuli along which the variance of the spike-triggered ensemble differed the most from that of the prior stimulus ensemble.
Principal component analysis — Specifically, the eigenvectors with the largest positive eigenvalues correspond to the directions along which the variance of the spike-triggered ensemble showed the largest positive change compared to the variance of the prior.
Principal component analysis — Since these were the directions in which varying the stimulus led to a spike, they are often good approximations of the sought after relevant stimulus features.
Principal component analysis — In neuroscience, PCA is also used to discern the identity of a neuron from the shape of its action potential.
Principal component analysis — Spike sorting is an important procedure because extracellular recording techniques often pick up signals from more than one neuron.
Principal component analysis — In spike sorting, one first uses PCA to reduce the dimensionality of the space of action potential waveforms, and then performs clustering analysis to associate specific action potentials with individual neurons.
Principal component analysis — PCA as a dimension reduction technique is particularly suited to detect coordinated activities of large neuronal ensembles.
Principal component analysis — It has been used in determining collective variables, that is, order parameters, during phase transitions in the brain.
Principal component analysis — === Correspondence analysis === Correspondence analysis (CA) was developed by Jean-Paul Benzécri and is conceptually similar to PCA, but scales the data (which should be non-negative) so that rows and columns are treated equivalently.
Principal component analysis — CA decomposes the chi-squared statistic associated to this table into orthogonal factors.
Principal component analysis — Because CA is a descriptive technique, it can be applied to tables for which the chi-squared statistic is appropriate or not.
Principal component analysis — Several variants of CA are available including detrended correspondence analysis and canonical correspondence analysis.
Principal component analysis — One special extension is multiple correspondence analysis, which may be seen as the counterpart of principal component analysis for categorical data.
Principal component analysis — Principal component analysis creates variables that are linear combinations of the original variables.
Principal component analysis — The PCA transformation can be helpful as a pre-processing step before clustering.
Principal component analysis — PCA is a variance-focused approach seeking to reproduce the total variable variance, in which components reflect both common and unique variance of the variable.
Principal component analysis — PCA is generally preferred for purposes of data reduction (that is, translating variable space into optimal factor space) but not when the goal is to detect the latent construct or factors.
Principal component analysis — Factor analysis is similar to principal component analysis, in that factor analysis also involves linear combinations of variables.
Principal component analysis — Different from PCA, factor analysis is a correlation-focused approach seeking to reproduce the inter-correlations among variables, in which the factors "represent the common variance of variables, excluding unique variance".
Principal component analysis — In terms of the correlation matrix, this corresponds with focusing on explaining the off-diagonal terms (that is, shared co-variance), while PCA focuses on explaining the terms that sit on the diagonal.
Principal component analysis — However, as a side result, when trying to reproduce the on-diagonal terms, PCA also tends to fit relatively well the off-diagonal correlations.
Principal component analysis — Results given by PCA and factor analysis are very similar in most situations, but this is not always the case, and there are some problems where the results are significantly different.
Principal component analysis — Factor analysis is generally used when the research purpose is detecting data structure (that is, latent constructs or factors) or causal modeling.
Principal component analysis — If the factor model is incorrectly formulated or the assumptions are not met, then factor analysis will give erroneous results.
Principal component analysis — === K-means clustering === It has been asserted that the relaxed solution of k-means clustering, specified by the cluster indicators, is given by the principal components, and the PCA subspace spanned by the principal directions is identical to the cluster centroid subspace.
Principal component analysis — However, that PCA is a useful relaxation of k-means clustering was not a new result, and it is straightforward to uncover counterexamples to the statement that the cluster centroid subspace is spanned by the principal directions.
Principal component analysis — === Non-negative matrix factorization === Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) is a dimension reduction method where only non-negative elements in the matrices are used, which is therefore a promising method in astronomy, in the sense that astrophysical signals are non-negative.
Principal component analysis — The PCA components are orthogonal to each other, while the NMF components are all non-negative and therefore constructs a non-orthogonal basis.
Principal component analysis — In PCA, the contribution of each component is ranked based on the magnitude of its corresponding eigenvalue, which is equivalent to the fractional residual variance (FRV) in analyzing empirical data.
Principal component analysis — The residual fractional eigenvalue plots, that is, 1 − ∑ i = 1 k λ i / ∑ j = 1 n λ j {\displaystyle 1-\sum _{i=1}^{k}\lambda _{i}{\Big /}\sum _{j=1}^{n}\lambda _{j}} as a function of component number k {\displaystyle k} given a total of n {\displaystyle n} components, for PCA have a flat plateau, where no data is captured to remove the quasi-static noise, then the curves drop quickly as an indication of over-fitting (random noise).
Principal component analysis — The FRV curves for NMF is decreasing continuously when the NMF components are constructed sequentially, indicating the continuous capturing of quasi-static noise; then converge to higher levels than PCA, indicating the less over-fitting property of NMF.
Principal component analysis — === Iconography of correlations === It is often difficult to interpret the principal components when the data include many variables of various origins, or when some variables are qualitative.
Principal component analysis — If observations or variables have an excessive impact on the direction of the axes, they should be removed and then projected as supplementary elements.
Principal component analysis — In addition, it is necessary to avoid interpreting the proximities between the points close to the center of the factorial plane.
Principal component analysis — The iconography of correlations, on the contrary, which is not a projection on a system of axes, does not have these drawbacks.
Principal component analysis — The principle of the diagram is to underline the "remarkable" correlations of the correlation matrix, by a solid line (positive correlation) or dotted line (negative correlation).
Principal component analysis — A strong correlation is not "remarkable" if it is not direct, but caused by the effect of a third variable.
Principal component analysis — For example, if a variable Y depends on several independent variables, the correlations of Y with each of them are weak and yet "remarkable".
Principal component analysis — A particular disadvantage of PCA is that the principal components are usually linear combinations of all input variables.
Principal component analysis — Sparse PCA overcomes this disadvantage by finding linear combinations that contain just a few input variables.
Principal component analysis — It extends the classic method of principal component analysis (PCA) for the reduction of dimensionality of data by adding sparsity constraint on the input variables.
Principal component analysis — a regression framework, a convex relaxation/semidefinite programming framework, a generalized power method framework an alternating maximization framework forward-backward greedy search and exact methods using branch-and-bound techniques, Bayesian formulation framework.
Principal component analysis — The methodological and theoretical developments of Sparse PCA as well as its applications in scientific studies were recently reviewed in a survey paper.
Principal component analysis — Most of the modern methods for nonlinear dimensionality reduction find their theoretical and algorithmic roots in PCA or K-means.
Principal component analysis — Pearson's original idea was to take a straight line (or plane) which will be "the best fit" to a set of data points.
Principal component analysis — Trevor Hastie expanded on this concept by proposing Principal curves as the natural extension for the geometric interpretation of PCA, which explicitly constructs a manifold for data approximation followed by projecting the points onto it.
Principal component analysis — Another popular generalization is kernel PCA, which corresponds to PCA performed in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space associated with a positive definite kernel.
Principal component analysis — In multilinear subspace learning, PCA is generalized to multilinear PCA (MPCA) that extracts features directly from tensor representations.
Principal component analysis — MPCA is further extended to uncorrelated MPCA, non-negative MPCA and robust MPCA.
Principal component analysis — N-way principal component analysis may be performed with models such as Tucker decomposition, PARAFAC, multiple factor analysis, co-inertia analysis, STATIS, and DISTATIS.
Principal component analysis — === Robust PCA === While PCA finds the mathematically optimal method (as in minimizing the squared error), it is still sensitive to outliers in the data that produce large errors, something that the method tries to avoid in the first place.
Principal component analysis — For example, in data mining algorithms like correlation clustering, the assignment of points to clusters and outliers is not known beforehand.
Principal component analysis — A recently proposed generalization of PCA based on a weighted PCA increases robustness by assigning different weights to data objects based on their estimated relevancy.
Principal component analysis — Outlier-resistant variants of PCA have also been proposed, based on L1-norm formulations (L1-PCA).
Principal component analysis — Robust principal component analysis (RPCA) via decomposition in low-rank and sparse matrices is a modification of PCA that works well with respect to grossly corrupted observations.
Principal component analysis — === Independent component analysis === Independent component analysis (ICA) is directed to similar problems as principal component analysis, but finds additively separable components rather than successive approximations.
Principal component analysis — === Network component analysis === Given a matrix E {\displaystyle E} , it tries to decompose it into two matrices such that E = A P {\displaystyle E=AP} .
Principal component analysis — A key difference from techniques such as PCA and ICA is that some of the entries of A {\displaystyle A} are constrained to be 0.
Principal component analysis — While in general such a decomposition can have multiple solutions, they prove that if the following conditions are satisfied :
Principal component analysis — A {\displaystyle A} has full column rank Each column of A {\displaystyle A} must have at least L − 1 {\displaystyle L-1} zeroes where L {\displaystyle L} is the number of columns of A {\displaystyle A} (or alternatively the number of rows of P {\displaystyle P} ).
Principal component analysis — The justification for this criterion is that if a node is removed from the regulatory layer along with all the output nodes connected to it, the result must still be characterized by a connectivity matrix with full column rank.
Principal component analysis — P {\displaystyle P} must have full row rank. then the decomposition is unique up to multiplication by a scalar.
Principal component analysis — === Discriminant analysis of principal components === Discriminant analysis of principal components (DAPC) is a multivariate method used to identify and describe clusters of genetically related individuals.
Principal component analysis — Genetic variation is partitioned into two components: variation between groups and within groups, and it maximizes the former.
Principal component analysis — Linear discriminants are linear combinations of alleles which best separate the clusters.
Principal component analysis — Alleles that most contribute to this discrimination are therefore those that are the most markedly different across groups.
Principal component analysis — The contributions of alleles to the groupings identified by DAPC can allow identifying regions of the genome driving the genetic divergence among groups In DAPC, data is first transformed using a principal components analysis (PCA) and subsequently clusters are identified using discriminant analysis (DA).
Principal component analysis — A DAPC can be realized on R using the package Adegenet. (more info: adegenet on the web)
Principal component analysis — === Directional component analysis === Directional component analysis (DCA) is a method used in the atmospheric sciences for analysing multivariate datasets.
Principal component analysis — Like PCA, it allows for dimension reduction, improved visualization and improved interpretability of large data-sets.
Principal component analysis — Also like PCA, it is based on a covariance matrix derived from the input dataset.
Principal component analysis — The difference between PCA and DCA is that DCA additionally requires the input of a vector direction, referred to as the impact.
Principal component analysis — Whereas PCA maximises explained variance, DCA maximises probability density given impact.
Principal component analysis — The motivation for DCA is to find components of a multivariate dataset that are both likely (measured using probability density) and important (measured using the impact).
Principal component analysis — DCA has been used to find the most likely and most serious heat-wave patterns in weather prediction ensembles , and the most likely and most impactful changes in rainfall due to climate change .
Principal component analysis — == Software/source code == ALGLIB – a C++ and C# library that implements PCA and truncated PCA Analytica – The built-in EigenDecomp function computes principal components.
Principal component analysis — ELKI – includes PCA for projection, including robust variants of PCA, as well as PCA-based clustering algorithms.
Principal component analysis — Gretl – principal component analysis can be performed either via the pca command or via the princomp() function.
Principal component analysis — Julia – Supports PCA with the pca function in the MultivariateStats package KNIME – A java based nodal arranging software for Analysis, in this the nodes called PCA, PCA compute, PCA Apply, PCA inverse make it easily.
Principal component analysis — Maple (software) – The PCA command is used to perform a principal component analysis on a set of data.
Principal component analysis — Mathematica – Implements principal component analysis with the PrincipalComponents command using both covariance and correlation methods.
Principal component analysis — In the Statistics Toolbox, the functions princomp and pca (R2012b) give the principal components, while the function pcares gives the residuals and reconstructed matrix for a low-rank PCA approximation.
Principal component analysis — Matplotlib – Python library have a PCA package in the .mlab module. mlpack – Provides an implementation of principal component analysis in C++. mrmath – A high performance math library for Delphi and FreePascal can perform PCA; including robust variants.
Principal component analysis — NAG Library – Principal components analysis is implemented via the g03aa routine (available in both the Fortran versions of the Library).
Principal component analysis — GNU Octave – Free software computational environment mostly compatible with MATLAB, the function princomp gives the principal component.
Principal component analysis — OpenCV Oracle Database 12c – Implemented via DBMS_DATA_MINING.SVDS_SCORING_MODE by specifying setting value SVDS_SCORING_PCA Orange (software) – Integrates PCA in its visual programming environment.
Principal component analysis — PCA displays a scree plot (degree of explained variance) where user can interactively select the number of principal components.
Principal component analysis — Qlucore – Commercial software for analyzing multivariate data with instant response using PCA.
Principal component analysis — R – Free statistical package, the functions princomp and prcomp can be used for principal component analysis; prcomp uses singular value decomposition which generally gives better numerical accuracy.
Principal component analysis — Some packages that implement PCA in R, include, but are not limited to: ade4, vegan, ExPosition, dimRed, and FactoMineR.
Principal component analysis — SAS – Proprietary software; for example, see scikit-learn – Python library for machine learning which contains PCA, Probabilistic PCA, Kernel PCA, Sparse PCA and other techniques in the decomposition module.
Principal component analysis — Scilab – Free and open-source, cross-platform numerical computational package, the function princomp computes principal component analysis, the function pca computes principal component analysis with standardized variables.
Principal component analysis — SPSS – Proprietary software most commonly used by social scientists for PCA, factor analysis and associated cluster analysis.
Principal component analysis — Weka – Java library for machine learning which contains modules for computing principal components.
Principal component analysis — University of Copenhagen video by Rasmus Bro on YouTube Stanford University video by Andrew Ng on YouTube A Tutorial on Principal Component Analysis A layman's introduction to principal component analysis on YouTube (a video of less than 100 seconds.) StatQuest: StatQuest: Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Step-by-Step on YouTube Layman's explanation in making sense of principal component analysis, eigenvectors & eigenvalues on Stack Overflow See also the list of Software implementations
3D computer graphics — 3D computer graphics, sometimes called CGI, 3D-CGI or three-dimensional computer graphics, are graphics that use a three-dimensional representation of geometric data (often Cartesian) stored in the computer for the purposes of performing calculations and rendering digital images, usually 2D images but sometimes 3D images.
3D computer graphics — The resulting images may be stored for viewing later (possibly as an animation) or displayed in real time.
3D computer graphics — 3D computer graphics, contrary to what the name suggests, are most often displayed on two-dimensional displays.
3D computer graphics — Unlike 3D film and similar techniques, the result is two-dimensional, without visual depth.
3D computer graphics — More often, 3D graphics are being displayed on 3D displays, like in virtual reality systems.
3D computer graphics — 3D graphics stand in contrast to 2D computer graphics which typically use completely different methods and formats for creation and rendering.
3D computer graphics — 3D computer graphics rely on many of the same algorithms as 2D computer vector graphics in the wire-frame model and 2D computer raster graphics in the final rendered display.
3D computer graphics — In computer graphics software, 2D applications may use 3D techniques to achieve effects such as lighting, and similarly, 3D may use some 2D rendering techniques.
3D computer graphics — Unlike the rendered image, a model's data is contained within a graphical data file.
3D computer graphics — A 3D model is a mathematical representation of any three-dimensional object; a model is not technically a graphic until it is displayed.
3D computer graphics — A model can be displayed visually as a two-dimensional image through a process called 3D rendering, or it can be used in non-graphical computer simulations and calculations.
3D computer graphics — With 3D printing, models are rendered into an actual 3D physical representation of themselves, with some limitations as to how accurately the physical model can match the virtual model.
3D computer graphics — William Fetter was credited with coining the term computer graphics in 1961 to describe his work at Boeing.
3D computer graphics — An early example of interactive 3-D computer graphics was explored in 1963 by the Sketchpad program at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Lincoln Laboratory.
3D computer graphics — One of the first displays of computer animation was Futureworld (1976), which included an animation of a human face and a hand that had originally appeared in the 1972 experimental short A Computer Animated Hand, created by University of Utah students Edwin Catmull and Fred Parke.
3D computer graphics — 3-D computer graphics software began appearing for home computers in the late 1970s.
3D computer graphics — The earliest known example is 3D Art Graphics, a set of 3-D computer graphics effects, written by Kazumasa Mitazawa and released in June 1978 for the Apple II.
3D computer graphics — With the first headset coming out in the late 1950s, the popularity of VR didn't take off until the 2000s.
3D computer graphics — In 2012 the Oculus was released and since then, the 3D VR headset world has expanded.
3D computer graphics — == Overview == 3D computer graphics production workflow falls into three basic phases:
3D computer graphics — 3D modeling – the process of forming a computer model of an object's shape Layout and CGI animation – the placement and movement of objects (models, lights etc.) within a scene 3D rendering – the computer calculations that, based on light placement, surface types, and other qualities, generate (rasterize the scene into) an image
3D computer graphics — The two most common sources of 3D models are those that an artist or engineer originates on a computer with a 3D modeling tool, or models scanned into a computer from real-world objects (Polygonal Modeling, Patch Modeling and NURBS Modeling are some popular tools used in 3D modeling).
3D computer graphics — Basically, a 3D model is formed from points called vertices that define the shape and form polygons.
3D computer graphics — The overall integrity of the model and its suitability to use in animation depend on the structure of the polygons.
3D computer graphics — This defines spatial relationships between objects, including location and size.
3D computer graphics — Animation refers to the temporal description of an object (i.e., how it moves and deforms over time.
3D computer graphics — Stop Motion has multiple categories within such as Claymation, Cutout, Silhouette, Lego, Puppets, and Pixelation.
3D computer graphics — === Materials and textures === Materials and textures are properties that the render engine uses to render the model.
3D computer graphics — One can give the model materials to tell the render engine how to treat light when it hits the surface.
3D computer graphics — Textures are used to give the material color using a color or albedo map, or give the surface features using a bump map or normal map.
3D computer graphics — Rendering converts a model into an image either by simulating light transport to get photo-realistic images, or by applying an art style as in non-photorealistic rendering.
3D computer graphics — The two basic operations in realistic rendering are transport (how much light gets from one place to another) and scattering (how surfaces interact with light).
3D computer graphics — This step is usually performed using 3-D computer graphics software or a 3-D graphics API.
3D computer graphics — Altering the scene into a suitable form for rendering also involves 3D projection, which displays a three-dimensional image in two dimensions.
3D computer graphics — Although 3-D modeling and CAD software may perform 3-D rendering as well (e.g., Autodesk 3ds Max or Blender), exclusive 3-D rendering software also exists (e.g., OTOY's Octane Rendering Engine, Maxon's Redshift)
3D computer graphics — == Software == 3-D computer graphics software produces computer-generated imagery (CGI) through 3D modeling and 3D rendering or produces 3-D models for analytical, scientific and industrial purposes.
3D computer graphics — There are many varieties of files supporting 3-D graphics, for example, Blender (.blend), Wavefront (.obj), .fbx and .x DirectX files.
3D computer graphics — Each file format can be accessed through their respective applications, such as DirectX files, and Quake.
3D computer graphics — Alternatively, files can be accessed through third-party standalone programs, or via manual decompilation.
3D computer graphics — 3-D modeling software is a class of 3-D computer graphics software used to produce 3-D models.
3D computer graphics — 3-D modeling starts by describing 3 display models: Drawing Points, Drawing Lines and Drawing triangles and other Polygonal patches.
3D computer graphics — 3-D modelers can export their models to files, which can then be imported into other applications as long as the metadata are compatible.
3D computer graphics — Many modelers allow importers and exporters to be plugged-in, so they can read and write data in the native formats of other applications.
3D computer graphics — Most 3-D modelers contain a number of related features, such as ray tracers and other rendering alternatives and texture mapping facilities.
3D computer graphics — Some may be able to generate full-motion video of a series of rendered scenes (i.e. animation).
3D computer graphics — Computer aided design software may employ the same fundamental 3-D modeling techniques that 3-D modeling software use but their goal differs.
3D computer graphics — They are used in computer-aided engineering, computer-aided manufacturing, Finite element analysis, product lifecycle management, 3D printing and computer-aided architectural design.
3D computer graphics — === Complementary tools === After producing a video, studios then edit or composite the video using programs such as Adobe Premiere Pro or Final Cut Pro at the mid-level, or Autodesk Combustion, Digital Fusion, Shake at the high-end.
3D computer graphics — Match moving software is commonly used to match live video with computer-generated video, keeping the two in sync as the camera moves.
3D computer graphics — Use of real-time computer graphics engines to create a cinematic production is called machinima.
3D computer graphics — 2D computer graphics with 3D photorealistic effects are often achieved without wire-frame modeling and are sometimes indistinguishable in the final form.
3D computer graphics — Some graphic art software includes filters that can be applied to 2D vector graphics or 2D raster graphics on transparent layers.
3D computer graphics — Visual artists may also copy or visualize 3D effects and manually render photo-realistic effects without the use of filters.
3D computer graphics — Some video games use 2.5D graphics, involving restricted projections of three-dimensional environments, such as isometric graphics or virtual cameras with fixed angles, either as a way to improve performance of the game engine or for stylistic and gameplay concerns.
3D computer graphics — By contrast, games using 3D computer graphics without such restrictions are said to use true 3D.
3D computer graphics — === Other forms of animation === Cutout is the use of flat materials such as paper.
3D computer graphics — Everything is cut out of paper including the environment, characters, and even some props.
3D computer graphics — Pixelation is when the entire game appears pixelated, this includes the characters and the environment around them.
3D computer graphics — == See also == Graphics processing unit (GPU) List of 3D computer graphics software 3D data acquisition and object reconstruction 3D projection on 2D planes Geometry processing Isometric graphics in video games and pixel art List of stereoscopic video games Medical animation Render farm
3D computer graphics — A Critical History of Computer Graphics and Animation (Wayback Machine copy) How Stuff Works - 3D Graphics History of Computer Graphics series of articles (Wayback Machine copy) How 3D Works - Explains 3D modeling for an illuminated manuscript
Point cloud — Points may contain data other than position such as RGB colors, normals, timestamps and others.
Point cloud — Point clouds are generally produced by 3D scanners or by photogrammetry software, which measure many points on the external surfaces of objects around them.
Point cloud — As the output of 3D scanning processes, point clouds are used for many purposes, including to create 3D computer-aided design (CAD) or geographic information systems (GIS) models for manufactured parts, for metrology and quality inspection, and for a multitude of visualizing, animating, rendering, and mass customization applications.
Point cloud — When scanning a scene in real world using Lidar, the captured point clouds contain snippets of the scene, which requires alignment to generate a full map of the scanned environment.
Point cloud — Point clouds are often aligned with 3D models or with other point clouds, a process termed point set registration.
Point cloud — The Iterative closest point (ICP) algorithm can be used to align two point clouds that have an overlap between them, and are separated by a rigid transform.
Point cloud — Point clouds with elastic transforms can also be aligned by using a non-rigid variant of the ICP (NICP).
Point cloud — With advancements in machine learning in recent years, point cloud registration may also be done using end-to-end neural networks.
Point cloud — For industrial metrology or inspection using industrial computed tomography, the point cloud of a manufactured part can be aligned to an existing model and compared to check for differences.
Point cloud — Geometric dimensions and tolerances can also be extracted directly from the point cloud.
Point cloud — While point clouds can be directly rendered and inspected, point clouds are often converted to polygon mesh or triangle mesh models, non-uniform rational B-spline (NURBS) surface models, or CAD models through a process commonly referred to as surface reconstruction.
Point cloud — Some approaches, like Delaunay triangulation, alpha shapes, and ball pivoting, build a network of triangles over the existing vertices of the point cloud, while other approaches convert the point cloud into a volumetric distance field and reconstruct the implicit surface so defined through a marching cubes algorithm.
Point cloud — In geographic information systems, point clouds are one of the sources used to make digital elevation model of the terrain.
Point cloud — Drones are often used to collect a series of RGB images which can be later processed on a computer vision algorithm platform such as on AgiSoft Photoscan, Pix4D, DroneDeploy or Hammer Missions to create RGB point clouds from where distances and volumetric estimations can be made.
Point cloud — Point clouds can also be used to represent volumetric data, as is sometimes done in medical imaging.
Point cloud — == MPEG Point Cloud Compression == MPEG began standardizing point cloud compression (PCC) with a Call for Proposal (CfP) in 2017.
Point cloud — Three categories of point clouds were identified: category 1 for static point clouds, category 2 for dynamic point clouds, and category 3 for Lidar sequences (dynamically acquired point clouds).
Point cloud — Two technologies were finally defined: G-PCC (Geometry-based PCC, ISO/IEC 23090 part 9) for category 1 and category 3; and V-PCC (Video-based PCC, ISO/IEC 23090 part 5) for category 2.
Point cloud — The first test models were developed in October 2017, one for G-PCC (TMC13) and another one for V-PCC (TMC2).
Point cloud — Since then, the two test models have evolved through technical contributions and collaboration, and the first version of the PCC standard specifications was expected to be finalized in 2020 as part of the ISO/IEC 23090 series on the coded representation of immersive media content.
Point cloud — == See also == Skand – Democratising spatial data Euclideon – 3D graphics engine which makes use of a point cloud search algorithm to render images MeshLab – open source tool to manage point clouds and convert them into 3D triangular meshes CloudCompare – open source tool to view, edit, and process high density 3D point clouds Point Cloud Library (PCL) – comprehensive BSD open source library for n-D point clouds and 3D geometry processing
glTF — glTF (Graphics Library Transmission Format or GL Transmission Format and formerly known as WebGL Transmissions Format or WebGL TF) is a standard file format for three-dimensional scenes and models.
glTF — A glTF file uses one of two possible file extensions: .gltf (JSON/ASCII) or .glb (binary).
glTF — Alternatively, both formats may be self-contained by directly embedding binary data buffers (as base64-encoded strings in .gltf files or as raw byte arrays in .glb files).
glTF — An open standard developed and maintained by the Khronos Group, it supports 3D model geometry, appearance, scene graph hierarchy, and animation.
glTF — It is intended to be a streamlined, interoperable format for the delivery of 3D assets, while minimizing file size and runtime processing by apps.
glTF — The JSON may also contain blobs of binary data known as buffers, and refer to external files, for storing mesh data, images, etc.
glTF — The binary .glb format also contains JSON text, but serialized with binary chunk headers to allow blobs to be directly appended to the file.
glTF — Nodes are organized into a hierarchy, such that a node may have other nodes defined as children.
glTF — Nodes are saved in an array and are referred to by index, including by other nodes.
glTF — Furthermore, nodes refer to meshes by index, which refer to materials by index, which refer to textures by index, which refer to images by index.
glTF — All glTF data structures support being extended using a JSON property, allowing arbitrary JSON data to be added.
glTF — === glTF 1.0 === Members of the COLLADA working group conceived the file format in 2012.
glTF — At SIGGRAPH 2012, Khronos presented a demo of glTF, which was then called WebGL Transmissions Format (WebGL TF).
glTF — ==== Adoption of glTF 1.0 ==== At SIGGRAPH 2016, Oculus announced their adoption of glTF citing the similarities to their ovrscene format.
glTF — In October 2016, Microsoft joined the 3D Formats working group at Khronos to collaborate on glTF.
glTF — === glTF 2.0 === The second version, glTF 2.0, was released in June 2017, and is a complete overhaul of the file format from version 1.0, with most tools adopting the 2.0 version.
glTF — Based on a proposal by Fraunhofer originally presented at SIGGRAPH 2016, physically based rendering (PBR) was added, replacing WebGL shaders used in glTF 1.0. glTF 2.0 added the GLB binary format into the base specification.
glTF — Other upgrades include sparse accessors and morph targets for techniques such as facial animation, and schema tweaks and breaking changes for corner cases or performance such as replacing top-level glTF object properties with arrays for faster index-based access.
glTF — There is ongoing work towards import and export in Unity and an integrated multi-engine viewer and validator.
glTF — ==== Adoption of glTF 2.0 ==== On March 3, 2017, Microsoft announced that they will be using glTF 2.0 as the 3D asset format across their product line, including Paint 3D, 3D Viewer, Remix 3D, Babylon.js, and Microsoft Office.
glTF — As of 2019, the glTF and GLB formats are used on and supported by companies including DGG, UX3D, Sketchfab, Facebook, Microsoft, Oculus, Google, Adobe, Box, TurboSquid, Unreal Engine and Qt Quick 3D.
glTF — The format has been noted as an important standard for augmented reality, integrating with modeling software such as Autodesk Maya, Autodesk 3ds Max, and Poly.
glTF — In February 2020, the Smithsonian Institution launched their Open Access Initiative, releasing approximately 2.8 million 2D images and 3D models into the public domain, using glTF for the 3D models.
glTF — In July 2022, glTF 2.0 was released as the ISO/IEC 12113:2022 International Standard.
glTF — Khronos stated they will make regular submissions to bring updates and new widely adopted glTF functionality into refreshed versions of ISO/IEC 12113 to ensure that there is no long-term divergence between the ISO/IEC and Khronos specifications.
glTF — The open-source game engine Godot supports importing glTF 2.0 files since version 3.0 and export since version 4.0.
glTF — === Extensions === The glTF format can be extended with arbitrary JSON to add new data and functionality.
glTF — Extensions can be placed on any part of a glTF, including nodes, animations, materials, textures, and on the entire document.
glTF — Khronos keeps a non-comprehensive registry of glTF extensions on GitHub, including all official Khronos extensions and a few third-party extensions.
glTF — PBR extensions model the physical appearance of real-world objects, allowing developers to create realistic 3D assets that have the correct appearance.
glTF — As new PBR extensions are released, they continue to expand PBR capabilities within the glTF framework, allowing a wider range of scenes and objects to be realistically rendered as 3D assets.
glTF — The KTX 2.0 extension for universal texture compression enables 3D models in the glTF format to be highly compressed and to use natively supported texture formats, reducing file size and boosting rendering speed.
glTF — Draco is a glTF extension for mesh compression, to compress and decompress 3D meshes, to help reduce the size of 3D files.
glTF — Various glTF extensions for game engine interoperability have been developed by OMI group.
glTF — This includes extensions for physics shapes, physics bodies, physics joints, audio playback, seats, spawn points, and more.
glTF — The VRM consortium has developed glTF extensions for advanced humanoid 3D avatars including dynamic spring bones and toon materials.
glTF — == Derivative formats == On August 10, 2015, 3D Tiles, now a proposed OGC Community Standard, built on glTF to add a spatial data structure, metadata, and declarative styling for streaming massive heterogeneous 3D geospatial datasets.
glTF — == Software ecosystem == Khronos maintains the glTF Sample Viewer for viewing glTF assets.
glTF — Khronos also maintains the glTF Validator for validating if 3D models conform to the glTF specification. glTF loaders are in open-source WebGL engines including PlayCanvas, Three.js, Babylon.js, Cesium, PEX, xeogl, and A-Frame.
glTF — The Godot game engine supports and recommends the glTF format, with both import and export support.
glTF — Assimp can import and export glTF. glTF files can also be directly exported from a variety of 3D editors, such as Blender, Vectary, Autodesk 3ds Max (natively or using Verge3D exporter), Autodesk Maya (using babylon.js exporter), Autodesk Inventor, Modo, Houdini, Paint 3D, Godot, and Substance Painter.
glTF — Open-source glTF utility libraries are available for programming languages including JavaScript, Node.js, C++, C#, Haskell, Java, Go, Rust, Haxe, Ada, and TypeScript.
glTF — Khronos keeps a list of these libraries and other related applications on their ecosystem site.
glTF — 3D WooCommerce Product Configurator, a working group of universal guidelines, standards and certifications for 3D content creation and distribution in e-commerce, incorporates glTF for transmission of photorealistic 3D assets.
glTF — In June 2021, the 3D Commerce viewer certification program was launched, enabling 3D viewers to demonstrate they can accurately and reliably display 3D products using the glTF file format.
glTF — 3D Commerce's asset guidelines, released in 2020, include best practices for use of the glTF file format in 3D Commerce.
glTF — == See also == COLLADA Open Game Engine Exchange JSON Alembic (computer graphics) Universal Scene Description
Three.js — Three.js is a cross-browser JavaScript library and application programming interface (API) used to create and display animated 3D computer graphics in a web browser using WebGL.
Three.js — == Overview == Three.js allows the creation of graphical processing unit (GPU)-accelerated 3D animations using the JavaScript language as part of a website without relying on proprietary browser plugins.
Three.js — This is possible due to the advent of WebGL, a low-level graphics API created specifically for the web.
Three.js — High-level libraries such as Three.js, Babylon.js, Verge3D and many more make it possible to author complex 3D computer animations for display in the browser without the effort required for a traditional standalone application or a plugin.
Three.js — == History == Three.js was first released by Ricardo Cabello on GitHub in April 2010.
Three.js — The origins of the library can be traced back to his involvement with the demoscene in the early 2000s.
Three.js — The code was originally developed in the ActionScript language used by Adobe Flash, later being ported to JavaScript in 2009.
Three.js — In Cabello's mind, there were two strong points that justified the shift away from ActionScript: Firstly, JavaScript provided greater platform independence.
Three.js — Secondly, applications written in JavaScript would not need to be compiled by the developer beforehand, unlike Flash applications.
Three.js — Additional contributions by Cabello include API design, CanvasRenderer, SVGRenderer, and being responsible for merging the commits by the various contributors into the project.
Three.js — With the advent of WebGL, Paul Brunt was able to implement the new rendering technology quite easily as Three.js was designed with the rendering code as a module rather than in the core itself.
Three.js — Branislav Uličný, an early contributor, started with Three.js in 2010 after having posted a number of WebGL demos on his own site.
Three.js — He wanted WebGL renderer capabilities in Three.js to exceed those of CanvasRenderer or SVGRenderer.
Three.js — His major contributions generally involve materials, shaders, and post-processing.
Three.js — Soon after the introduction of WebGL 1.0 on Firefox 4 in March 2011, Joshua Koo came on board.
Three.js — Scenes: add and remove objects at run-time; fog Cameras: perspective and orthographic; controllers: trackball, FPS, path and more Animation: armatures, forward kinematics, inverse kinematics, morph, and keyframe Lights: ambient, direction, point, and spot lights; shadows: cast and receive Materials: Lambert, Phong, smooth shading, textures, and more Shaders: access to full OpenGL Shading Language (GLSL) capabilities: lens flare, depth pass, and extensive post-processing library Objects: meshes, particles, sprites, lines, ribbons, bones, and more - all with Level of detail Geometry: plane, cube, sphere, torus, 3D text, and more; modifiers: lathe, extrude, and tube Import/export: native serialization/deserialization via JSON, glTF, OBJ, USDZ, and more.
Three.js — Utilities: full set of time and 3D math functions including Viewing frustum, matrix, quaternion, UVs, and more Support: API documentation is under construction.
Three.js — Examples: Over 150 files of coding examples plus fonts, models, textures, sounds, and other support files Debugging: Stats.js, WebGL Inspector, Three.js Inspector Virtual and Augmented Reality via WebXR Physically based rendering (PBR): support for physically accurate materials like MeshStandardMaterial and MeshPhysicalMaterial Instancing: use of InstancedMesh for efficient rendering of thousands of repeated objects Post-processing: built-in post-processing pipeline with effects such as bloom, depth of field, outline, motion blur, SSAO, and FXAA Built-in editor: graphical scene editor available online for building and exporting 3D scenes Interactive controls: built-in controls such as OrbitControls, DragControls, TransformControls, and PointerLockControls for user interaction and navigation Alternative renderers: in addition to WebGLRenderer, Three.js also provides SVGRenderer and CSS3DRenderer, as well as experimental support for WebGPURenderer.
Three.js — Google Chrome Experiments List of WebGL frameworks JavaScript framework JavaScript library
Three.js — ISBN 978-1119975083. - "Three.js can make game development easier by taking care of low-level details" Williams, James (2012).
Three.js — Learning HTML5 game programming : a hands-on guide to building online games using Canvas, SVG, and WebGL.
Spatial index — A spatial database is a general-purpose database (usually a relational database) that has been enhanced to include spatial data that represents objects defined in a geometric space, along with tools for querying and analyzing such data.
Spatial index — Most spatial databases allow the representation of simple geometric objects such as points, lines and polygons.
Spatial index — Some spatial databases handle more complex structures such as 3D objects, topological coverages, linear networks, and triangulated irregular networks (TINs).
Spatial index — While typical databases have developed to manage various numeric and character types of data, such databases require additional functionality to process spatial data types efficiently, and developers have often added geometry or feature data types.
Spatial index — Geographic database (or geodatabase) is a georeferenced spatial database, used for storing and manipulating geographic data (or geodata, i.e., data associated with a location on Earth), especially in geographic information systems (GIS).
Spatial index — Almost all current relational and object-relational database management systems now have spatial extensions, and some GIS software vendors have developed their own spatial extensions to database management systems.
Spatial index — The Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) developed the Simple Features specification (first released in 1997) and sets standards for adding spatial functionality to database systems.
Spatial index — The SQL/MM Spatial ISO/IEC standard is a part of the structured query language and multimedia standard extending the Simple Features.
Spatial index — == Characteristics == The core functionality added by a spatial extension to a database is one or more spatial datatypes, which allow for the storage of spatial data as attribute values in a table.
Spatial index — Most commonly, a single spatial value would be a geometric primitive (point, line, polygon, etc.) based on the vector data model.
Spatial index — The datatypes in most spatial databases are based on the OGC Simple Features specification for representing geometric primitives.
Spatial index — Because all geographic locations must be specified according to a spatial reference system, spatial databases must also allow for the tracking and transformation of coordinate systems.
Spatial index — In many systems, when a spatial column is defined in a table, it also includes a choice of coordinate system, chosen from a list of available systems that is stored in a lookup table.
Spatial index — The second major functionality extension in a spatial database is the addition of spatial capabilities to the query language (e.g., SQL); these give the spatial database the same query, analysis, and manipulation operations that are available in traditional GIS software.
Spatial index — In most relational database management systems, this functionality is implemented as a set of new functions that can be used in SQL SELECT statements.
Spatial index — Several types of operations are specified by the Open Geospatial Consortium standard:
Spatial index — Measurement: Computes line length, polygon area, the distance between geometries, etc.
Spatial index — Geoprocessing: Modify existing features to create new ones, for example by creating a buffer around them, intersecting features, etc.
Spatial index — Predicates: Allows true/false queries about spatial relationships between geometries.
Spatial index — Examples include "do two polygons overlap?" or 'is there a residence located within a mile of the area we are planning to build the landfill?' (see DE-9IM) Geometry Constructors: Creates new geometries, usually by specifying the vertices (points or nodes) which define the shape.
Spatial index — Observer Functions: Queries that return specific information about a feature, such as the location of the center of a circle.
Spatial index — Some databases support only simplified or modified sets of these operations, especially in cases of NoSQL systems like MongoDB and CouchDB.
Spatial index — == Spatial index == A spatial index is used by a spatial database to optimize spatial queries, implementing spatial access methods.
Spatial index — Database systems use indices to quickly look up values by sorting data values in a linear (e.g. alphabetical) order; however, this way of indexing data is not optimal for spatial queries in two- or three-dimensional space.
Spatial index — Instead, spatial databases use a spatial index designed specifically for multi-dimensional ordering.
Spatial index — Bounding volume hierarchy (BVH) Geohash Grid (spatial index) HHCode Hilbert R-tree k-d tree m-tree – an m-tree index can be used for the efficient resolution of similarity queries on complex objects as compared using an arbitrary metric.
Spatial index — Octree PH-tree Quadtree R-tree: Typically the preferred method for indexing spatial data.
Spatial index — Objects (shapes, lines and points) are grouped using the minimum bounding rectangle (MBR).
Spatial index — Objects are added to an MBR within the index that will lead to the smallest increase in its size.
Spatial index — == Spatial query == A spatial query is a special type of database query supported by spatial databases, including geodatabases.
Spatial index — Two of the most important are that they allow for the use of geometry data types such as points, lines and polygons and that these queries consider the spatial relationship between these geometries.
Spatial index — The following are a few of the functions built into PostGIS, a free geodatabase which is a PostgreSQL extension (the term 'geometry' refers to a point, line, box or other two or three dimensional shape): Function prototype: functionName (parameter(s)) : return type
Spatial index — ST_Distance(geometry, geometry) : number ST_Equals(geometry, geometry) : boolean ST_Disjoint(geometry, geometry) : boolean ST_Intersects(geometry, geometry) : boolean ST_Touches(geometry, geometry) : boolean ST_Crosses(geometry, geometry) : boolean ST_Overlaps(geometry, geometry) : boolean ST_Contains(geometry, geometry) : boolean ST_Length(geometry) : number ST_Area(geometry) : number ST_Centroid(geometry) : geometry ST_Intersection(geometry, geometry) : geometry Thus, a spatial join between a points layer of cities and a polygon layer of countries could be performed in a spatially-extended SQL statement as:
Spatial index — The Intersect vector overlay operation (a core element of GIS software) could be replicated as:
Spatial index — === List === AllegroGraph – a graph database which provides a mechanism for efficient storage and retrieval of two-dimensional geospatial coordinates for Resource Description Framework data.
Spatial index — Esri Geodatabase (Enterprise, Mobile) - a proprietary spatial database structure and logical model that can be implemented on several relational databases, both commercial (Oracle, MS SQL Server, Db2) and open source (PostgreSQL, SQLite) Caliper extends the Raima Data Manager with spatial datatypes, functions, and utilities.
Spatial index — CouchDB a document-based database system that can be spatially enabled by a plugin called Geocouch Elasticsearch is a document-based database system that supports two types of geo data: geo_point fields which support lat/lon pairs, and geo_shape fields, which support points, lines, circles, polygons, multi-polygons, etc.
Spatial index — GeoMesa is a cloud-based spatio-temporal database built on top of Apache Accumulo and Apache Hadoop (also supports Apache HBase, Google Bigtable, Apache Cassandra, and Apache Kafka).
Spatial index — H2 supports geometry types and spatial indices as of version 1.3.173 (2013-07-28).
Spatial index — An extension called H2GIS available on Maven Central gives full OGC Simple Features support.
Spatial index — Any edition of IBM Db2 can be spatially-enabled to implement the OpenGIS spatial functionality with SQL spatial types and functions.
Spatial index — IBM Informix Geodetic and Spatial datablade extensions auto-install on use and expand Informix's datatypes to include multiple standard coordinate systems and support for RTree indexes.
Spatial index — Geodetic and Spatial data can also be incorporated with Informix's Timeseries data support for tracking objects in motion over time.
Spatial index — Linter SQL Server supports spatial types and spatial functions according to the OpenGIS specifications.
Spatial index — Microsoft SQL Server has support for spatial types since version 2008 MonetDB/GIS extension for MonetDB adds OGS Simple Features to the relational column-store database.
Spatial index — MySQL DBMS implements the datatype geometry, plus some spatial functions implemented according to the OpenGIS specifications.
Spatial index — However, in MySQL version 5.5 and earlier, functions that test spatial relationships are limited to working with minimum bounding rectangles rather than the actual geometries.
Spatial index — MySQL versions earlier than 5.0.16 only supported spatial data in MyISAM tables.
Spatial index — As of MySQL 5.0.16, InnoDB, NDB, BDB, and ARCHIVE also support spatial features.
Spatial index — Neo4j – a graph database that can build 1D and 2D indexes as B-tree, Quadtree and Hilbert curve directly in the graph OpenLink Virtuoso has supported SQL/MM since version 6.01.3126, with significant enhancements including GeoSPARQL in Open Source Edition 7.2.6, and in Enterprise Edition 8.2.0 Oracle Spatial PostgreSQL DBMS (database management system) uses the extension PostGIS to implement OGC-compliant spatial functionality, including standardized datatype geometry and corresponding functions.
Spatial index — Smallworld VMDS, the native GE Smallworld GIS database SpaceTime is a commercial spatiotemporal database built on top of the proprietary multidimensional index similar to the k-d tree family, but created using the bottom-up approach and adapted to particular space-time distribution of data.
Spatial index — Teradata Geospatial includes 2D spatial functionality (OGC-compliant) in its data warehouse system.
Spatial index — Vertica Place, the geo-spatial extension for HP Vertica, adds OGC-compliant spatial features to the relational column-store database.
Spatial index — == See also == Geographic information system (GIS) GeoSPARQL Glacio-geological databases Location intelligence Multimedia database Nearest neighbor search Object-based spatial database Simple Features Spatial analysis Spatial ETL Spatiotemporal database
Spatial index — == Further reading == Spatial Databases: A Tour, Shashi Shekhar and Sanjay Chawla, Prentice Hall, 2003 (ISBN 0-13-017480-7) Spatial Databases – With Application to GIS Philippe Rigaux, Michel Scholl and Agnes Voisard.
Spatial index — 2002 (ISBN 1-55860-588-6) Evaluation of Data Management Systems for Geospatial Big Data Pouria Amirian, Anahid Basiri and Adam Winstanley.
Spatial index — == External links == An introduction to PostgreSQL PostGIS PostgreSQL PostGIS as components in a Service Oriented Architecture SOA A Trigger Based Security Alarming Scheme for Moving Objects on Road Networks Sajimon Abraham, P.
Spatial index — Sojan Lal, Published by Springer Berlin / Heidelberg-2008. geodatabase ArcGIS Resource Center description of a geodatabase
k-d tree — In computer science, a k-d tree (short for k-dimensional tree) is a space-partitioning data structure for organizing points in a k-dimensional space.
k-d tree — K-dimensional is that which concerns exactly k orthogonal axes or a space of any number of dimensions. k-d trees are a useful data structure for several applications, such as:
k-d tree — Searches involving a multidimensional search key (e.g. range searches and nearest neighbor searches) & Creating point clouds. k-d trees are a special case of binary space partitioning trees.
k-d tree — == Description == The k-d tree is a binary tree in which every node is a k-dimensional point.
k-d tree — Every non-leaf node can be thought of as implicitly generating a splitting hyperplane that divides the space into two parts, known as half-spaces.
k-d tree — Points to the left of this hyperplane are represented by the left subtree of that node and points to the right of the hyperplane are represented by the right subtree.
k-d tree — The hyperplane direction is chosen in the following way: every node in the tree is associated with one of the k dimensions, with the hyperplane perpendicular to that dimension's axis.
k-d tree — So, for example, if for a particular split the "x" axis is chosen, all points in the subtree with a smaller "x" value than the node will appear in the left subtree and all points with a larger "x" value will be in the right subtree.
k-d tree — In such a case, the hyperplane would be set by the x value of the point, and its normal would be the unit x-axis.
k-d tree — === Construction === Since there are many possible ways to choose axis-aligned splitting planes, there are many different ways to construct k-d trees.
k-d tree — As one moves down the tree, one cycles through the axes used to select the splitting planes. (For example, in a 3-dimensional tree, the root would have an x-aligned plane, the root's children would both have y-aligned planes, the root's grandchildren would all have z-aligned planes, the root's great-grandchildren would all have x-aligned planes, the root's great-great-grandchildren would all have y-aligned planes, and so on.) Points are inserted by selecting the median of the points being put into the subtree, with respect to their coordinates in the axis being used to create the splitting plane. (Note the assumption that we feed the entire set of n points into the algorithm up-front.) This method leads to a balanced k-d tree, in which each leaf node is approximately the same distance from the root.
k-d tree — In the case where median points are not selected, there is no guarantee that the tree will be balanced.
k-d tree — To avoid coding a complex O ( n ) {\displaystyle O(n)} median-finding algorithm or using an O ( n log ⁡ ( n ) ) {\displaystyle O(n\log(n))} sort such as heapsort or mergesort to sort all n points, a popular practice is to sort a fixed number of randomly selected points, and use the median of those points to serve as the splitting plane.
k-d tree — Given a list of n points, the following algorithm uses a median-finding sort to construct a balanced k-d tree containing those points.
k-d tree — function kdtree (list of points pointList, int depth) { // Select axis based on depth so that axis cycles through all valid values var int axis := depth mod k;
k-d tree — // Sort point list and choose median as pivot element select median by axis from pointList;
k-d tree — // Create node and construct subtree node.location := median; node.leftChild := kdtree(points in pointList before median, depth+1); node.rightChild := kdtree(points in pointList after median, depth+1); return node; }
k-d tree — It is common that points "after" the median include only the ones that are strictly greater than the median in the current dimension.
k-d tree — For points that lie on the median in the current dimension, it is possible to define a function that compares them in all dimensions.
k-d tree — In some cases, it is acceptable to let points equal to the median lie on one side of the median, for example, by splitting the points into a "lesser than" subset and a "greater than or equal to" subset.
k-d tree — This algorithm creates the invariant that for any node, all the nodes in the left subtree are on one side of a splitting plane, and all the nodes in the right subtree are on the other side.
k-d tree — The splitting plane of a node goes through the point associated with that node (referred to in the code as node.location).
k-d tree — Alternative algorithms for building a balanced k-d tree presort the data prior to building the tree.
k-d tree — Then, they maintain the order of the presort during tree construction and hence eliminate the costly step of finding the median at each level of subdivision.
k-d tree — Two such algorithms build a balanced k-d tree to sort triangles in order to improve the execution time of ray tracing for three-dimensional computer graphics.
k-d tree — These algorithms presort n triangles prior to building the k-d tree, then build the tree in O ( n log ⁡ n ) {\displaystyle O(n\log n)} time in the best case.
k-d tree — An algorithm that builds a balanced k-d tree to sort points has a worst-case complexity of O ( k n log ⁡ ( n ) ) {\displaystyle O(kn\log(n))} .
k-d tree — This algorithm presorts n points in each of k dimensions using an O ( n log ⁡ ( n ) ) {\displaystyle O(n\log(n))} sort such as Heapsort or Mergesort prior to building the tree.
k-d tree — It then maintains the order of these k presorts during tree construction and thereby avoids finding the median at each level of subdivision.
k-d tree — One adds a new point to a k-d tree in the same way as one adds an element to any other search tree.
k-d tree — First, traverse the tree, starting from the root and moving to either the left or the right child depending on whether the point to be inserted is on the "left" or "right" side of the splitting plane.
k-d tree — Once you get to the node under which the child should be located, add the new point as either the left or right child of the leaf node, again depending on which side of the node's splitting plane contains the new node.
k-d tree — Adding points in this manner can cause the tree to become unbalanced, leading to decreased tree performance.
k-d tree — The rate of tree performance degradation is dependent upon the spatial distribution of tree points being added, and the number of points added in relation to the tree size.
k-d tree — If a tree becomes too unbalanced, it may need to be re-balanced to restore the performance of queries that rely on the tree balancing, such as nearest neighbour searching.
k-d tree — To remove a point from an existing k-d tree without breaking the invariant, the easiest way is to form the set of all nodes and leaves from the children of the target node and recreate that part of the tree.
k-d tree — For the general case, find a replacement point, say p {\displaystyle p} , from the subtree rooted at R {\displaystyle R} .
k-d tree — For finding a replacement point, if R {\displaystyle R} discriminates on x {\displaystyle x} (say) and R {\displaystyle R} has a right child, find the point with the minimum x {\displaystyle x} value from the subtree rooted at the right child.
k-d tree — Otherwise, find the point with the maximum x {\displaystyle x} value from the subtree rooted at the left child.
k-d tree — === Balancing === Balancing a k-d tree requires care because k-d trees are sorted in multiple dimensions, so the tree-rotation technique cannot be used to balance them as this may break the invariant.
k-d tree — They include divided k-d tree, pseudo k-d tree, K-D-B-tree, hB-tree and Bkd-tree.
k-d tree — The nearest neighbour search (NN) algorithm aims to find the point in the tree that is nearest to a given input point.
k-d tree — This search can be done efficiently by using the tree properties to quickly eliminate large portions of the search space.
k-d tree — Starting with the root node, the algorithm moves down the tree recursively, in the same way that it would if the search point were being inserted (i.e. it goes left or right depending on whether the point is lesser than or greater than the current node in the split dimension).
k-d tree — Once the algorithm reaches a leaf node, it checks the node point and if the distance is better than the "current best", that node point is saved as the "current best".
k-d tree — The algorithm unwinds the recursion of the tree, performing the following steps at each node: If the current node is closer than the current best, then it becomes the current best.
k-d tree — The algorithm checks whether there could be any points on the other side of the splitting plane that are closer to the search point than the current best.
k-d tree — In concept, this is done by intersecting the splitting hyperplane with a hypersphere around the search point that has a radius equal to the current nearest distance.
k-d tree — Since the hyperplanes are all axis-aligned this is implemented as a simple comparison to see whether the distance between the splitting coordinate of the search point and current node is less than the distance (overall coordinates) from the search point to the current best.
k-d tree — If the hypersphere crosses the plane, there could be nearer points on the other side of the plane, so the algorithm must move down the other branch of the tree from the current node looking for closer points, following the same recursive process as the entire search.
k-d tree — If the hypersphere doesn't intersect the splitting plane, then the algorithm continues walking up the tree, and the entire branch on the other side of that node is eliminated.
k-d tree — When the algorithm finishes this process for the root node, then the search is complete.
k-d tree — Generally the algorithm uses squared distances for comparison to avoid computing square roots.
k-d tree — Additionally, it can save computation by holding the squared current best distance in a variable for comparison.
k-d tree — It can provide the k nearest neighbours to a point by maintaining k current bests instead of just one.
k-d tree — A branch is only eliminated when k points have been found and the branch cannot have points closer than any of the k current bests.
k-d tree — For example, approximate nearest neighbour searching can be achieved by simply setting an upper bound on the number of points to examine in the tree or by interrupting the search process based upon a real time clock (which may be more appropriate in hardware implementations).
k-d tree — The nearest neighbour for points that are already in the tree can be achieved by not updating the refinement for nodes that give zero distance.
k-d tree — As a result, this has the downside of discarding points that are not unique but are co-located with the original search point.
k-d tree — Approximate nearest neighbour is useful in real-time applications such as robotics due to the significant speed increase gained by not searching for the best point exhaustively.
k-d tree — For example, if a tree is storing values corresponding to income and age, then a range search might be something like looking for all members of the tree which have an age between 20 and 50 years and an income between 50,000 and 80,000.
k-d tree — Since k-d trees divide the range of a domain in half at each level of the tree, they are useful for performing range searches.
k-d tree — Analyses of binary search trees has found that the worst case time for range search in a k-dimensional k-d tree containing n nodes is given by the following equation.
k-d tree — t worst = O ( k ⋅ n 1 − 1 k ) {\displaystyle t_{\text{worst}}=O\left(k\cdot n^{1-{\frac {1}{k}}}\right)}
k-d tree — == Degradation in performance with high-dimensional data == Finding the nearest point is an O ( log ⁡ ( n ) ) {\displaystyle O(\log(n))} operation on average, in the case of randomly distributed points, although analysis in general is tricky.
k-d tree — In high-dimensional spaces, the curse of dimensionality causes the algorithm to need to visit many more branches than in lower-dimensional spaces.
k-d tree — In particular, when the number of points is only slightly higher than the number of dimensions, the algorithm is only slightly better than a linear search of all of the points.
k-d tree — As a general rule, if the dimensionality is k, the number of points in the data, n, should be n ≫ 2 k {\displaystyle n\gg 2^{k}} .
k-d tree — Otherwise, when k-d trees are used with high-dimensional data, most of the points in the tree will be evaluated and the efficiency is no better than exhaustive search, and, if a good-enough fast answer is required, approximate nearest-neighbour methods should be used instead.
k-d tree — == Degradation in performance when the query point is far from points in the k-d tree == Additionally, even in low-dimensional space, if the average pairwise distance between the k nearest neighbors of the query point is significantly less than the average distance between the query point and each of the k nearest neighbors, the performance of nearest neighbor search degrades towards linear, since the distances from the query point to each nearest neighbor are of similar magnitude. (In the worst case, consider a cloud of points distributed on the surface of a sphere centered at the origin.
k-d tree — Every point is equidistant from the origin, so a search for the nearest neighbor from the origin would have to iterate through all points on the surface of the sphere to identify the nearest neighbor – which in this case is not even unique.) To mitigate the potentially significant performance degradation of a k-d tree search in the worst case, a maximum distance parameter can be provided to the tree search algorithm, and the recursive search can be pruned whenever the closest point in a given branch of the tree cannot be closer than this maximum distance.
k-d tree — This may result in a nearest neighbor search failing to return a nearest neighbor, which means no points are within this maximum distance from the query point.
k-d tree — == Complexity == Building a static k-d tree from n points has the following worst-case complexity: O(n log2 n) if an O(n log n) sort such as Heapsort or Mergesort is used to find the median at each level of the nascent tree; O(n log n) if an O(n) median of medians algorithm is used to select the median at each level of the nascent tree; O(kn log n) if n points are presorted in each of k dimensions using an O(n log n) sort such as Heapsort or Mergesort prior to building the k-d tree.
k-d tree — Querying an axis-parallel range in a balanced k-d tree takes O(n1−1/k +m) time, where m is the number of the reported points, and k the dimension of the k-d tree.
k-d tree — Finding 1 nearest neighbour in a balanced k-d tree with randomly distributed points takes O(log n) time on average.
k-d tree — === Volumetric objects === Instead of points, a k-d tree can also contain rectangles or hyperrectangles.
k-d tree — Thus range search becomes the problem of returning all rectangles intersecting the search rectangle.
k-d tree — In an orthogonal range search, the opposite coordinate is used when comparing against the median.
k-d tree — For example, if the current level is split along xhigh, we check the xlow coordinate of the search rectangle.
k-d tree — If the median is less than the xlow coordinate of the search rectangle, then no rectangle in the left branch can ever intersect with the search rectangle and so can be pruned.
k-d tree — === Points only in leaves === It is also possible to define a k-d tree with points stored solely in leaves.
k-d tree — This form of k-d tree allows a variety of split mechanics other than the standard median split.
k-d tree — The midpoint splitting rule selects on the middle of the longest axis of the space being searched, regardless of the distribution of points.
k-d tree — This guarantees that the aspect ratio will be at most 2:1, but the depth is dependent on the distribution of points.
k-d tree — A variation, called sliding-midpoint, only splits on the middle if there are points on both sides of the split.
k-d tree — Maneewongvatana and Mount show that this offers "good enough" performance on common data sets.
k-d tree — Using sliding-midpoint, an approximate nearest neighbour query can be answered in O ( 1 ϵ d log ⁡ n ) {\displaystyle O\left({\tfrac {1}{{\epsilon \ }^{d}}}\log n\right)} .
k-d tree — Approximate range counting can be answered in O ( log ⁡ n + ( 1 ϵ ) d ) {\displaystyle O\left(\log n+{\left({\tfrac {1}{\epsilon \ }}\right)}^{d}\right)} with this method.
k-d tree — implicit k-d tree, a k-d tree defined by an implicit splitting function rather than an explicitly-stored set of splits min/max k-d tree, a k-d tree that associates a minimum and maximum value with each of its nodes Relaxed k-d tree, a k-d tree such that the discriminants in each node are arbitrary Related variations:
k-d tree — Quadtree, a space-partitioning structure that splits in two dimensions simultaneously, so that each node has 4 children Octree, a space-partitioning structure that splits in three dimensions simultaneously, so that each node has 8 children Ball tree, a multi-dimensional space partitioning useful for nearest neighbor search R-tree and bounding interval hierarchy, structure for partitioning objects rather than points, with overlapping regions Vantage-point tree, a variant of a k-d tree that uses hyperspheres instead of hyperplanes to partition the data Problems that can be addressed with k-d trees:
k-d tree — Recursive partitioning, a technique for constructing statistical decision trees that are similar to k-d trees Klee's measure problem, a problem of computing the area of a union of rectangles, solvable using k-d trees Guillotine problem, a problem of finding a k-d tree whose cells are large enough to contain a given set of rectangles
k-d tree — == Open source implementations == ALGLIB has C# and C++ implementations of k-d tree based nearest neighbor and approximate nearest neighbor algorithms CGAL the Computational Algorithms Library, has an implementations of k-d tree based nearest neighbor, approximate nearest neighbor as well as range search algorithms.
k-d tree — SciPy, a Python library for scientific computing, contains implementations of k-d tree based nearest neighbor lookup algorithms. scikit-learn, a Python library for machine learning, contains implementations of k-d trees to back nearest neighbor and radius neighbors searches.
Quadtree — A quadtree is a tree data structure in which each internal node has exactly four children.
Quadtree — Quadtrees are the two-dimensional analog of octrees and are most often used to partition a two-dimensional space by recursively subdividing it into four quadrants or regions.
Quadtree — The data associated with a leaf cell varies by application, but the leaf cell represents a "unit of interesting spatial information".
Quadtree — The subdivided regions may be square or rectangular, or may have arbitrary shapes.
Quadtree — A tree-pyramid (T-pyramid) is a "complete" tree; every node of the T-pyramid has four child nodes except leaf nodes; all leaves are on the same level, the level that corresponds to individual pixels in the image.
Quadtree — The data in a tree-pyramid can be stored compactly in an array as an implicit data structure similar to the way a binary heap can store a complete binary tree compactly in an array.
Quadtree — Quadtrees may be classified according to the type of data they represent, including areas, points, lines and curves.
Quadtree — Quadtrees may also be classified by whether the shape of the tree is independent of the order in which data is processed.
Quadtree — === Region quadtree === The region quadtree represents a partition of space in two dimensions by decomposing the region into four equal quadrants, subquadrants, and so on with each leaf node containing data corresponding to a specific subregion.
Quadtree — Each node in the tree either has exactly four children, or has no children (a leaf node).
Quadtree — The height of quadtrees that follow this decomposition strategy (i.e. subdividing subquadrants as long as there is interesting data in the subquadrant for which more refinement is desired) is sensitive to and dependent on the spatial distribution of interesting areas in the space being decomposed.
Quadtree — A region quadtree with a depth of n may be used to represent an image consisting of 2n × 2n pixels, where each pixel value is 0 or 1.
Quadtree — In this application, each leaf node represents a block of pixels that are all 0s or all 1s.
Quadtree — Note the potential savings in terms of space when these trees are used for storing images; images often have many regions of considerable size that have the same colour value throughout.
Quadtree — Rather than store a big 2-D array of every pixel in the image, a quadtree can capture the same information potentially many divisive levels higher than the pixel-resolution sized cells that we would otherwise require.
Quadtree — A region quadtree may also be used as a variable resolution representation of a data field.
Quadtree — For example, the temperatures in an area may be stored as a quadtree, with each leaf node storing the average temperature over the subregion it represents.
Quadtree — === Point quadtree === The point quadtree is an adaptation of a binary tree used to represent two-dimensional point data.
Quadtree — It shares the features of all quadtrees but is a true tree as the center of a subdivision is always on a point.
Quadtree — It is often very efficient in comparing two-dimensional, ordered data points, usually operating in O(log n) time.
Quadtree — Point quadtrees are worth mentioning for completeness, but they have been surpassed by k-d trees as tools for generalized binary search.
Quadtree — Point quadtrees with random insertion have been studied under the name weighted planar stochastic lattices.
Quadtree — Given the next point to insert, we find the cell in which it lies and add it to the tree.
Quadtree — The new point is added such that the cell that contains it is divided into quadrants by the vertical and horizontal lines that run through the point.
Quadtree — Since the division of the plane is decided by the order of point-insertion, the tree's height is sensitive to and dependent on insertion order.
Quadtree — Inserting in a "bad" order can lead to a tree of height linear in the number of input points (at which point it becomes a linked-list).
Quadtree — If the point-set is static, pre-processing can be done to create a tree of balanced height.
Quadtree — ==== Node structure for a point quadtree ==== A node of a point quadtree is similar to a node of a binary tree, with the major difference being that it has four pointers (one for each quadrant) instead of two ("left" and "right") as in an ordinary binary tree.
Quadtree — Also a key is usually decomposed into two parts, referring to x and y coordinates.
Quadtree — four pointers: quad[‘NW’], quad[‘NE’], quad[‘SW’], and quad[‘SE’] point; which in turn contains: key; usually expressed as x, y coordinates value; for example a name
Quadtree — === Point-region (PR) quadtree === Point-region (PR) quadtrees are very similar to region quadtrees.
Quadtree — In a region quadtree, a uniform value is stored that applies to the entire area of the cell of a leaf.
Quadtree — The cells of a PR quadtree, however, store a list of points that exist within the cell of a leaf.
Quadtree — As mentioned previously, for trees following this decomposition strategy the height depends on the spatial distribution of the points.
Quadtree — Like the point quadtree, the PR quadtree may also have a linear height when given a "bad" set.
Quadtree — === Edge quadtree === Edge quadtrees (much like PM quadtrees) are used to store lines rather than points.
Quadtree — Curves are approximated by subdividing cells to a very fine resolution, specifically until there is a single line segment per cell.
Quadtree — Near corners/vertices, edge quadtrees will continue dividing until they reach their maximum level of decomposition.
Quadtree — This can result in extremely unbalanced trees which may defeat the purpose of indexing.
Quadtree — === Polygonal map (PM) quadtree === The polygonal map quadtree (or PM Quadtree) is a variation of quadtree which is used to store collections of polygons that may be degenerate (meaning that they have isolated vertices or edges).
Quadtree — A big difference between PM quadtrees and edge quadtrees is that the cell under consideration is not subdivided if the segments meet at a vertex in the cell.
Quadtree — There are three main classes of PM Quadtrees, which vary depending on what information they store within each black node.
Quadtree — PM3 quadtrees can store any amount of non-intersecting edges and at most one point.
Quadtree — PM2 quadtrees are the same as PM3 quadtrees except that all edges must share the same end point.
Quadtree — Finally PM1 quadtrees are similar to PM2, but black nodes can contain a point and its edges or just a set of edges that share a point, but you cannot have a point and a set of edges that do not contain the point.
Quadtree — === Compressed quadtrees === This section summarizes a subsection from a book by Sariel Har-Peled.
Quadtree — If we were to store every node corresponding to a subdivided cell, we may end up storing a lot of empty nodes.
Quadtree — We can cut down on the size of such sparse trees by only storing subtrees whose leaves have interesting data (i.e. "important subtrees").
Quadtree — When we only keep important subtrees, the pruning process may leave long paths in the tree where the intermediate nodes have degree two (a link to one parent and one child).
Quadtree — It turns out that we only need to store the node u {\displaystyle u} at the beginning of this path (and associate some meta-data with it to represent the removed nodes) and attach the subtree rooted at its end to u {\displaystyle u} .
Quadtree — It is still possible for these compressed trees to have a linear height when given "bad" input points.
Quadtree — Although we trim a lot of the tree when we perform this compression, it is still possible to achieve logarithmic-time search, insertion, and deletion by taking advantage of Z-order curves.
Quadtree — The Z-order curve maps each cell of the full quadtree (and hence even the compressed quadtree) in O ( 1 ) {\displaystyle O(1)} time to a one-dimensional line (and maps it back in O ( 1 ) {\displaystyle O(1)} time too), creating a total order on the elements.
Quadtree — Therefore, we can store the quadtree in a data structure for ordered sets (in which we store the nodes of the tree).
Quadtree — We must state a reasonable assumption before we continue: we assume that given two real numbers α , β ∈ [ 0 , 1 ) {\displaystyle \alpha ,\beta \in [0,1)} expressed as binary, we can compute in O ( 1 ) {\displaystyle O(1)} time the index of the first bit in which they differ.
Quadtree — We also assume that we can compute in O ( 1 ) {\displaystyle O(1)} time the lowest common ancestor of two points/cells in the quadtree and establish their relative Z-ordering, and we can compute the floor function in O ( 1 ) {\displaystyle O(1)} time.
Quadtree — With these assumptions, point location of a given point q {\displaystyle q} (i.e. determining the cell that would contain q {\displaystyle q} ), insertion, and deletion operations can all be performed in O ( log ⁡ n ) {\displaystyle O(\log {n})} time (i.e. the time it takes to do a search in the underlying ordered set data structure).
Quadtree — To perform a point location for q {\displaystyle q} (i.e. find its cell in the compressed tree):
Quadtree — Find the existing cell in the compressed tree that comes before q {\displaystyle q} in the Z-order.
Quadtree — Else, find what would have been the lowest common ancestor of the point q {\displaystyle q} and the cell v {\displaystyle v} in an uncompressed quadtree.
Quadtree — Find the existing cell in the compressed tree that comes before u {\displaystyle u} in the Z-order and return it.
Quadtree — Without going into specific details, to perform insertions and deletions we first do a point location for the thing we want to insert/delete, and then insert/delete it.
Quadtree — Care must be taken to reshape the tree as appropriate, creating and removing nodes as needed.
Quadtree — Image representation Image processing Mesh generation Spatial indexing, point location queries, and range queries Efficient collision detection in two dimensions View frustum culling of terrain data Storing sparse data, such as a formatting information for a spreadsheet or for some matrix calculations Solution of multidimensional fields (computational fluid dynamics, electromagnetism) Conway's Game of Life simulation program.
Quadtree — State estimation Quadtrees are also used in the area of fractal image analysis Maximum disjoint sets
Quadtree — == Image processing using quadtrees == Quadtrees, particularly the region quadtree, have lent themselves well to image processing applications.
Quadtree — We will limit our discussion to binary image data, though region quadtrees and the image processing operations performed on them are just as suitable for colour images.
Quadtree — === Image union / intersection === One of the advantages of using quadtrees for image manipulation is that the set operations of union and intersection can be done simply and quickly.
Quadtree — Given two binary images, the image union (also called overlay) produces an image wherein a pixel is black if either of the input images has a black pixel in the same location.
Quadtree — That is, a pixel in the output image is white only when the corresponding pixel in both input images is white, otherwise the output pixel is black.
Quadtree — Rather than do the operation pixel by pixel, we can compute the union more efficiently by leveraging the quadtree's ability to represent multiple pixels with a single node.
Quadtree — For the purposes of discussion below, if a subtree contains both black and white pixels we will say that the root of that subtree is coloured grey.
Quadtree — The algorithm works by traversing the two input quadtrees ( T 1 {\displaystyle T_{1}} and T 2 {\displaystyle T_{2}} ) while building the output quadtree T {\displaystyle T} .
Quadtree — Consider the nodes v 1 ∈ T 1 {\displaystyle v_{1}\in T_{1}} and v 2 ∈ T 2 {\displaystyle v_{2}\in T_{2}} corresponding to the same region in the images.
Quadtree — If v 1 {\displaystyle v_{1}} or v 2 {\displaystyle v_{2}} is black, the corresponding node is created in T {\displaystyle T} and is colored black.
Quadtree — If only one of them is black and the other is gray, the gray node will contain a subtree underneath.
Quadtree — If v 1 {\displaystyle v_{1}} (respectively, v 2 {\displaystyle v_{2}} ) is white, v 2 {\displaystyle v_{2}} (respectively, v 1 {\displaystyle v_{1}} ) and the subtree underneath it (if any) is copied to T {\displaystyle T} .
Quadtree — If both v 1 {\displaystyle v_{1}} and v 2 {\displaystyle v_{2}} are gray, then the corresponding children of v 1 {\displaystyle v_{1}} and v 2 {\displaystyle v_{2}} are considered.
Quadtree — While this algorithm works, it does not by itself guarantee a minimally sized quadtree.
Quadtree — For example, consider the result if we were to union a checkerboard (where every tile is a pixel) of size 2 k × 2 k {\displaystyle 2^{k}\times 2^{k}} with its complement.
Quadtree — The result is a giant black square which should be represented by a quadtree with just the root node (coloured black), but instead the algorithm produces a full 4-ary tree of depth k {\displaystyle k} .
Quadtree — To fix this, we perform a bottom-up traversal of the resulting quadtree where we check if the four children nodes have the same colour, in which case we replace their parent with a leaf of the same colour.
Quadtree — One way to think about the intersection of the two images is that we are doing a union with respect to the white pixels.
Quadtree — As such, to perform the intersection we swap the mentions of black and white in the union algorithm.
Quadtree — === Connected component labelling === Consider two neighbouring black pixels in a binary image.
Quadtree — In general, two black pixels are connected if one can be reached from the other by moving only to adjacent pixels (i.e. there is a path of black pixels between them where each consecutive pair is adjacent).
Quadtree — Using the quadtree representation of images, Samet showed how we can find and label these connected components in time proportional to the size of the quadtree.
Quadtree — establish the adjacency relationships between black pixels process the equivalence relations from the first step to obtain one unique label for each connected component label the black pixels with the label associated with their connected component To simplify the discussion, let us assume the children of a node in the quadtree follow the Z-order (SW, NW, SE, NE).
Quadtree — Since we can count on this structure, for any cell we know how to navigate the quadtree to find the adjacent cells in the different levels of the hierarchy.
Quadtree — For each black leaf v {\displaystyle v} we look at the node or nodes representing cells that are Northern neighbours and Eastern neighbours (i.e. the Northern and Eastern cells that share edges with the cell of v {\displaystyle v} ).
Quadtree — Since the tree is organized in Z-order, we have the invariant that the Southern and Western neighbours have already been taken care of and accounted for.
Quadtree — Let the Northern or Eastern neighbour currently under consideration be u {\displaystyle u} .
Quadtree — If only one of u {\displaystyle u} or v {\displaystyle v} has a label, assign that label to the other cell If neither of them have labels, create one and assign it to both of them If u {\displaystyle u} and v {\displaystyle v} have different labels, record this label equivalence and move on Step two can be accomplished using the union-find data structure.
Quadtree — For every equivalence relation noted in the first step, we union the corresponding sets.
Quadtree — Afterwards, each distinct remaining set will be associated with a distinct connected component in the image.
Quadtree — This time, for each black node v {\displaystyle v} we use the union-find's find operation (with the old label of v {\displaystyle v} ) to find and assign v {\displaystyle v} its new label (associated with the connected component of which v {\displaystyle v} is part).
Quadtree — == Mesh generation using quadtrees == This section summarizes a chapter from a book by Har-Peled and de Berg et al.
Quadtree — Mesh generation is essentially the triangulation of a point set for which further processing may be performed.
Quadtree — As such, it is desirable for the resulting triangulation to have certain properties (like non-uniformity, triangles that are not "too skinny", large triangles in sparse areas and small triangles in dense ones, etc.) to make further processing quicker and less error-prone.
Quadtree — Quadtrees built on the point set can be used to create meshes with these desired properties.
Quadtree — Consider a leaf of the quadtree and its corresponding cell v {\displaystyle v} .
Quadtree — We say v {\displaystyle v} is balanced (for mesh generation) if the cell's sides are intersected by the corner points of neighbouring cells at most once on each side.
Quadtree — This means that the quadtree levels of leaves adjacent to v {\displaystyle v} differ by at most one from the level of v {\displaystyle v} .
Quadtree — When this is true for all leaves, we say the whole quadtree is balanced (for mesh generation).
Quadtree — Consider the cell v {\displaystyle v} and the 5 × 5 {\displaystyle 5\times 5} neighbourhood of same-sized cells centred at v {\displaystyle v} .
Quadtree — We say the quadtree is well-balanced if it is balanced, and for every leaf u {\displaystyle u} that contains a point of the point set, its extended cluster is also in the quadtree and the extended cluster contains no other point of the point set.
Quadtree — For every leaf, if there is a neighbour that is too large, subdivide the neighbour.
Quadtree — We also make sure that for a leaf with a point in it, the nodes for each leaf's extended cluster are in the tree.
Quadtree — For every leaf node v {\displaystyle v} that contains a point, if the extended cluster contains another point, we further subdivide the tree and rebalance as necessary.
Quadtree — If we needed to subdivide, for each child u {\displaystyle u} of v {\displaystyle v} we ensure the nodes of u {\displaystyle u} 's extended cluster are in the tree (and re-balance as required).
Quadtree — We consider the corner points of the tree cells as vertices in our triangulation.
Quadtree — Before the transformation step we have a bunch of boxes with points in some of them.
Quadtree — The transformation step is done in the following manner: for each point, warp the closest corner of its cell to meet it and triangulate the resulting four quadrangles to make "nice" triangles (the interested reader is referred to chapter 12 of Har-Peled for more details on what makes "nice" triangles).
Quadtree — For each regular square (no points within and no corner points in its sides), introduce the diagonal.
Quadtree — Due to the way in which we separated points with the well-balancing property, no square with a corner intersecting a side is one that was warped.
Quadtree — If there is one intersected side, the square becomes three triangles by adding the long diagonals connecting the intersection with opposite corners.
Quadtree — If there are four intersected sides, we split the square in half by adding an edge between two of the four intersections, and then connect these two endpoints to the remaining two intersection points.
Quadtree — For the other squares, we introduce a point in the middle and connect it to all four corners of the square as well as each intersection point.
Quadtree — At the end of it all, we have a nice triangulated mesh of our point set built from a quadtree.
Quadtree — == Pseudocode == The following pseudo code shows one means of implementing a quadtree which handles only points.
Quadtree — === QuadTree class === This class represents both one quad tree and the node where it is rooted.
Quadtree — === Insertion === The following method inserts a point into the appropriate quad of a quadtree, splitting if necessary.
Quadtree — === Query range === The following method finds all points contained within a range.
Quadtree — == See also == Adaptive mesh refinement Binary space partitioning Binary tiling k-d tree Octree R-tree UB-tree Spatial database Subpaving Z-order curve
Quadtree — ISBN 3-540-65620-0.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) Chapter 14: Quadtrees: pp.
Quadtree — Samet, Hanan; Webber, Robert (July 1985). "Storing a Collection of Polygons Using Quadtrees" (PDF).
R-tree — R-trees are tree data structures used for spatial access methods, i.e., for indexing multi-dimensional information such as geographical coordinates, rectangles or polygons.
R-tree — The R-tree was proposed by Antonin Guttman in 1984 and has found significant use in both theoretical and applied contexts.
R-tree — A common real-world usage for an R-tree might be to store spatial objects such as restaurant locations or the polygons that typical maps are made of: streets, buildings, outlines of lakes, coastlines, etc. and then find answers quickly to queries such as "Find all museums within 2 km of my current location", "retrieve all road segments within 2 km of my location" (to display them in a navigation system) or "find the nearest gas station" (although not taking roads into account).
R-tree — The R-tree can also accelerate nearest neighbor search for various distance metrics, including great-circle distance.
R-tree — == R-tree idea == The key idea of the data structure is to group nearby objects and represent them with their minimum bounding rectangle in the next higher level of the tree; the "R" in R-tree is for rectangle.
R-tree — Since all objects lie within this bounding rectangle, a query that does not intersect the bounding rectangle also cannot intersect any of the contained objects.
R-tree — At the leaf level, each rectangle describes a single object; at higher levels the aggregation includes an increasing number of objects.
R-tree — Similar to the B-tree, the R-tree is also a balanced search tree (so all leaf nodes are at the same depth), organizes the data in pages, and is designed for storage on disk (as used in databases).
R-tree — Each page can contain a maximum number of entries, often denoted as M {\displaystyle M} .
R-tree — It also guarantees a minimum fill (except for the root node), however best performance has been experienced with a minimum fill of 30%–40% of the maximum number of entries (B-trees guarantee 50% page fill, and B*-trees even 66%).
R-tree — The reason for this is the more complex balancing required for spatial data as opposed to linear data stored in B-trees.
R-tree — As with most trees, the searching algorithms (e.g., intersection, containment, nearest neighbor search) are rather simple.
R-tree — The key idea is to use the bounding boxes to decide whether or not to search inside a subtree.
R-tree — Like B-trees, R-trees are suitable for large data sets and databases, where nodes can be paged to memory when needed, and the whole tree cannot be kept in main memory.
R-tree — Even if data can be fit in memory (or cached), the R-trees in most practical applications will usually provide performance advantages over naive check of all objects when the number of objects is more than few hundred or so.
R-tree — However, for in-memory applications, there are similar alternatives that can provide slightly better performance or be simpler to implement in practice.
R-tree — To maintain in-memory computing for R-tree in a computer cluster where computing nodes are connected by a network, researchers have used RDMA (Remote Direct Memory Access) to implement data-intensive applications under R-tree in a distributed environment.
R-tree — This approach is scalable for increasingly large applications and achieves high throughput and low latency performance for R-tree.
R-tree — The key difficulty of R-tree is to build an efficient tree that on one hand is balanced (so the leaf nodes are at the same height) on the other hand the rectangles do not cover too much empty space and do not overlap too much (so that during search, fewer subtrees need to be processed).
R-tree — For example, the original idea for inserting elements to obtain an efficient tree is to always insert into the subtree that requires least enlargement of its bounding box.
R-tree — Once that page is full, the data is split into two sets that should cover the minimal area each.
R-tree — Most of the research and improvements for R-trees aims at improving the way the tree is built and can be grouped into two objectives: building an efficient tree from scratch (known as bulk-loading) and performing changes on an existing tree (insertion and deletion).
R-tree — R-trees do not guarantee good worst-case performance, but generally perform well with real-world data.
R-tree — The (bulk-loaded) Priority R-tree variant of the R-tree is worst-case optimal, but due to its increased complexity it has remained confined to theoretical study and has not received much attention in practical applications.
R-tree — When data is organized in an R-tree, the neighbors within a given distance r and the k nearest neighbors (for any Lp-Norm) of all points can efficiently be computed using a spatial join.
R-tree — This is beneficial for many algorithms based on such queries, for example the Local Outlier Factor.
R-tree — DeLi-Clu, Density-Link-Clustering is a cluster analysis algorithm that uses the R-tree structure for a similar kind of spatial join to efficiently compute an OPTICS clustering.
R-tree — === Data layout === Data in R-trees is organized in pages that can have a variable number of entries (up to some pre-defined maximum, and usually above a minimum fill).
R-tree — Each entry within a non-leaf node stores two pieces of data: a way of identifying a child node, and the bounding box of all entries within this child node.
R-tree — Leaf nodes store the data required for each child, often a point or bounding box representing the child and an external identifier for the child.
R-tree — For polygon data (that often requires the storage of large polygons) the common setup is to store only the MBR (minimum bounding rectangle) of the polygon along with a unique identifier in the tree.
R-tree — === Search === The search process in an R-tree embodies a two-phase approach that aligns with the Filter and Refine Principle (FRP).
R-tree — In this structure, the internal nodes serve as an initial filter by quickly excluding regions of space that do not intersect the query, while the leaf nodes provide a refined, precise evaluation by storing the actual spatial objects.
R-tree — Every internal node contains a set of rectangles and pointers to the corresponding child node and every leaf node contains the rectangles of spatial objects (the pointer to some spatial object can be there).
R-tree — For every rectangle in a node, it has to be decided if it overlaps the search rectangle or not.
R-tree — Searching is done like this in a recursive manner until all overlapping nodes have been traversed.
R-tree — When a leaf node is reached, the contained bounding boxes (rectangles) are tested against the search rectangle and their objects (if there are any) are put into the result set if they lie within the search rectangle.
R-tree — For priority search such as nearest neighbor search, the query consists of a point or rectangle.
R-tree — Until the queue is empty or the desired number of results have been returned the search continues by processing the nearest entry in the queue.
R-tree — This approach can be used with various distance metrics, including great-circle distance for geographic data.
R-tree — === Insertion === To insert an object, the tree is traversed recursively from the root node.
R-tree — At each step, all rectangles in the current directory node are examined, and a candidate is chosen using a heuristic such as choosing the rectangle which requires least enlargement.
R-tree — Again, since an exhaustive search is too expensive, a heuristic is employed to split the node into two.
R-tree — Adding the newly created node to the previous level, this level can again overflow, and these overflows can propagate up to the root node; when this node also overflows, a new root node is created and the tree has increased in height.
R-tree — ==== Choosing the insertion subtree ==== The algorithm needs to decide in which subtree to insert.
R-tree — When a data object is fully contained in a single rectangle, the choice is clear.
R-tree — When there are multiple options or rectangles in need of enlargement, the choice can have a significant impact on the performance of the tree.
R-tree — What happens next is it tries to minimize the overlap (in case of ties, prefer least enlargement and then least area); at the higher levels, it behaves similar to the R-tree, but on ties again preferring the subtree with smaller area.
R-tree — The decreased overlap of rectangles in the R*-tree is one of the key benefits over the traditional R-tree.
R-tree — ==== Splitting an overflowing node ==== Since redistributing all objects of a node into two nodes has an exponential number of options, a heuristic needs to be employed to find the best split.
R-tree — In the classic R-tree, Guttman proposed two such heuristics, called QuadraticSplit and LinearSplit.
R-tree — In quadratic split, the algorithm searches for the pair of rectangles that is the worst combination to have in the same node, and puts them as initial objects into the two new groups.
R-tree — It then searches for the entry which has the strongest preference for one of the groups (in terms of area increase) and assigns the object to this group until all objects are assigned (satisfying the minimum fill).
R-tree — There are other splitting strategies such as Greene's Split, the R*-tree splitting heuristic (which again tries to minimize overlap, but also prefers quadratic pages) or the linear split algorithm proposed by Ang and Tan (which however can produce very irregular rectangles, which are less performant for many real world range and window queries).
R-tree — In addition to having a more advanced splitting heuristic, the R*-tree also tries to avoid splitting a node by reinserting some of the node members, which is similar to the way a B-tree balances overflowing nodes.
R-tree — Finally, the X-tree can be seen as a R*-tree variant that can also decide to not split a node, but construct a so-called super-node containing all the extra entries, when it doesn't find a good split (in particular for high-dimensional data).
R-tree — === Deletion === Deleting an entry from a page may require updating the bounding rectangles of parent pages.
R-tree — Instead, the page will be dissolved and all its children (which may be subtrees, not only leaf objects) will be reinserted.
R-tree — If during this process the root node has a single element, the tree height can decrease.
R-tree — === Bulk-loading === Nearest-X: Objects are sorted by their first coordinate ("X") and then split into pages of the desired size.
R-tree — Packed Hilbert R-tree: variation of Nearest-X, but sorting using the Hilbert value of the center of a rectangle instead of using the X coordinate.
R-tree — Sort-Tile-Recursive (STR): Another variation of Nearest-X, that estimates the total number of leaves required as l = ⌈ number of objects / capacity ⌉ {\displaystyle l=\lceil {\text{number of objects}}/{\text{capacity}}\rceil } , the required split factor in each dimension to achieve this as s = ⌈ l 1 / d ⌉ {\displaystyle s=\lceil l^{1/d}\rceil } , then repeatedly splits each dimensions successively into s {\displaystyle s} equal sized partitions using 1-dimensional sorting.
R-tree — The resulting pages, if they occupy more than one page, are again bulk-loaded using the same algorithm.
R-tree — For point data, the leaf nodes will not overlap, and "tile" the data space into approximately equal sized pages.
R-tree — Overlap Minimizing Top-down (OMT): Improvement over STR using a top-down approach which minimizes overlaps between slices and improves query performance.
R-tree — == See also == Segment tree Interval tree – A degenerate R-tree for one dimension (usually time).
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In discrete mathematics, particularly in graph theory, a graph is a structure consisting of a set of objects where some pairs of the objects are in some sense "related".
Graph (discrete mathematics) — The objects are represented by abstractions called vertices (also called nodes or points) and each of the related pairs of vertices is called an edge (also called link or line).
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Typically, a graph is depicted in diagrammatic form as a set of dots or circles for the vertices, joined by lines or curves for the edges.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — For example, if the vertices represent people at a party, and there is an edge between two people if they shake hands, then this graph is undirected because any person A can shake hands with a person B only if B also shakes hands with A.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In contrast, if an edge from a person A to a person B means that A owes money to B, then this graph is directed, because owing money is not necessarily reciprocated.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Sylvester in 1878 due to a direct relation between mathematics and chemical structure (what he called a chemico-graphical image).
Graph (discrete mathematics) — The following are some of the more basic ways of defining graphs and related mathematical structures.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A graph (sometimes called an undirected graph to distinguish it from a directed graph, or a simple graph to distinguish it from a multigraph) is a pair G = (V, E), where V is a set whose elements are called vertices (singular: vertex), and E is a set of unordered pairs { v 1 , v 2 } {\displaystyle \{v_{1},v_{2}\}} of vertices, whose elements are called edges (sometimes links or lines).
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A vertex may belong to no edge, in which case it is not joined to any other vertex and is called isolated.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — When an edge { u , v } {\displaystyle \{u,v\}} exists, the vertices u and v are called adjacent.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A multigraph is a generalization that allows multiple edges to have the same pair of endpoints.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Sometimes, graphs are allowed to contain loops, which are edges that join a vertex to itself.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — To allow loops, the pairs of vertices in E must be allowed to have the same node twice.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Such generalized graphs are called graphs with loops or simply graphs when it is clear from the context that loops are allowed.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Generally, the vertex set V is taken to be finite (which implies that the edge set E is also finite).
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Sometimes infinite graphs are considered, but they are usually viewed as a special kind of binary relation, because most results on finite graphs either do not extend to the infinite case or need a rather different proof.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — An empty graph is a graph that has an empty set of vertices (and thus an empty set of edges).
Graph (discrete mathematics) — However, in some contexts, such as for expressing the computational complexity of algorithms, the term size is used for the quantity |V| + |E| (otherwise, a non-empty graph could have size 0).
Graph (discrete mathematics) — The degree or valency of a vertex is the number of edges that are incident to it; for graphs with loops, a loop is counted twice.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In a graph of order n, the maximum degree of each vertex is n − 1 (or n + 1 if loops are allowed, because a loop contributes 2 to the degree), and the maximum number of edges is n(n − 1)/2 (or n(n + 1)/2 if loops are allowed).
Graph (discrete mathematics) — The edges of a graph define a symmetric relation on the vertices, called the adjacency relation.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A graph is fully determined by its adjacency matrix A, which is an n × n square matrix, with Aij specifying the number of connections from vertex i to vertex j.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — For a simple graph, Aij is either 0, indicating disconnection, or 1, indicating connection; moreover Aii = 0 because an edge in a simple graph cannot start and end at the same vertex.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Graphs with self-loops will be characterized by some or all Aii being equal to a positive integer, and multigraphs (with multiple edges between vertices) will be characterized by some or all Aij being equal to a positive integer.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In one restricted but very common sense of the term, a directed graph is a pair G = (V, E) comprising:
Graph (discrete mathematics) — V, a set of vertices (also called nodes or points); E, a set of edges (also called directed edges, directed links, directed lines, arrows, or arcs), which are ordered pairs of distinct vertices: E ⊆ { ( x , y ) ∣ ( x , y ) ∈ V 2 and x ≠ y } {\displaystyle E\subseteq \{(x,y)\mid (x,y)\in V^{2}\;{\textrm {and}}\;x\neq y\}} .
Graph (discrete mathematics) — To avoid ambiguity, this type of object may be called precisely a directed simple graph.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In the edge (x, y) directed from x to y, the vertices x and y are called the endpoints of the edge, x the tail of the edge and y the head of the edge.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Multiple edges, not allowed under the definition above, are two or more edges with both the same tail and the same head.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In one more general sense of the term allowing multiple edges, a directed graph is sometimes defined to be an ordered triple G = (V, E, ϕ) comprising:
Graph (discrete mathematics) — V, a set of vertices (also called nodes or points); E, a set of edges (also called directed edges, directed links, directed lines, arrows or arcs); ϕ, an incidence function mapping every edge to an ordered pair of vertices (that is, an edge is associated with two distinct vertices): ϕ : E → { ( x , y ) ∣ ( x , y ) ∈ V 2 and x ≠ y } {\displaystyle \phi :E\to \{(x,y)\mid (x,y)\in V^{2}\;{\textrm {and}}\;x\neq y\}} .
Graph (discrete mathematics) — To avoid ambiguity, this type of object may be called precisely a directed multigraph.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Directed graphs as defined in the two definitions above cannot have loops, because a loop joining a vertex x {\displaystyle x} to itself is the edge (for a directed simple graph) or is incident on (for a directed multigraph) ( x , x ) {\displaystyle (x,x)} which is not in { ( x , y ) ∣ ( x , y ) ∈ V 2 and x ≠ y } {\displaystyle \{(x,y)\mid (x,y)\in V^{2}\;{\textrm {and}}\;x\neq y\}} .
Graph (discrete mathematics) — For directed simple graphs, the definition of E {\displaystyle E} should be modified to E ⊆ V 2 {\displaystyle E\subseteq V^{2}} .
Graph (discrete mathematics) — For directed multigraphs, the definition of ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } should be modified to ϕ : E → V 2 {\displaystyle \phi :E\to V^{2}} .
Graph (discrete mathematics) — To avoid ambiguity, these types of objects may be called precisely a directed simple graph permitting loops and a directed multigraph permitting loops (or a quiver) respectively.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — The edges of a directed simple graph permitting loops G is a homogeneous relation ~ on the vertices of G that is called the adjacency relation of G.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Specifically, for each edge (x, y), its endpoints x and y are said to be adjacent to one another, which is denoted x ~ y.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A mixed graph is a graph in which some edges may be directed and some may be undirected.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — It is an ordered triple G = (V, E, A) for a mixed simple graph and G = (V, E, A, ϕE, ϕA) for a mixed multigraph with V, E (the undirected edges), A (the directed edges), ϕE and ϕA defined as above.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A weighted graph or a network is a graph in which a number (the weight) is assigned to each edge.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Such weights might represent for example costs, lengths or capacities, depending on the problem at hand.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Such graphs arise in many contexts, for example in shortest path problems such as the traveling salesman problem.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — === Oriented graph === One definition of an oriented graph is that it is a directed graph in which at most one of (x, y) and (y, x) may be edges of the graph.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — That is, it is a directed graph that can be formed as an orientation of an undirected (simple) graph.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Some authors use "oriented graph" to mean any orientation of a given undirected graph or multigraph.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A regular graph is a graph in which each vertex has the same number of neighbours, i.e., every vertex has the same degree.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A regular graph with vertices of degree k is called a k‑regular graph or regular graph of degree k.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A complete graph is a graph in which each pair of vertices is joined by an edge.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — === Finite graph === A finite graph is a graph in which the vertex set and the edge set are finite sets.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Most commonly in graph theory it is implied that the graphs discussed are finite.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In an undirected graph, an unordered pair of vertices {x, y} is called connected if a path leads from x to y.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A connected graph is an undirected graph in which every unordered pair of vertices in the graph is connected.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In a directed graph, an ordered pair of vertices (x, y) is called strongly connected if a directed path leads from x to y.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Otherwise, the ordered pair is called weakly connected if an undirected path leads from x to y after replacing all of its directed edges with undirected edges.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A strongly connected graph is a directed graph in which every ordered pair of vertices in the graph is strongly connected.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Otherwise, it is called a weakly connected graph if every ordered pair of vertices in the graph is weakly connected.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A k-vertex-connected graph or k-edge-connected graph is a graph in which no set of k − 1 vertices (respectively, edges) exists that, when removed, disconnects the graph.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A bipartite graph is a simple graph in which the vertex set can be partitioned into two sets, W and X, so that no two vertices in W share a common edge and no two vertices in X share a common edge.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In a complete bipartite graph, the vertex set is the union of two disjoint sets, W and X, so that every vertex in W is adjacent to every vertex in X but there are no edges within W or X.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A path graph or linear graph of order n ≥ 2 is a graph in which the vertices can be listed in an order v1, v2, …, vn such that the edges are the {vi, vi+1} where i = 1, 2, …, n − 1.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Path graphs can be characterized as connected graphs in which the degree of all but two vertices is 2 and the degree of the two remaining vertices is 1.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — If a path graph occurs as a subgraph of another graph, it is a path in that graph.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A planar graph is a graph whose vertices and edges can be drawn in a plane such that no two of the edges intersect.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A cycle graph or circular graph of order n ≥ 3 is a graph in which the vertices can be listed in an order v1, v2, …, vn such that the edges are the {vi, vi+1} where i = 1, 2, …, n − 1, plus the edge {vn, v1}.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Cycle graphs can be characterized as connected graphs in which the degree of all vertices is 2.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — If a cycle graph occurs as a subgraph of another graph, it is a cycle or circuit in that graph.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A tree is an undirected graph in which any two vertices are connected by exactly one path, or equivalently a connected acyclic undirected graph.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A forest is an undirected graph in which any two vertices are connected by at most one path, or equivalently an acyclic undirected graph, or equivalently a disjoint union of trees.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A polytree (or directed tree or oriented tree or singly connected network) is a directed acyclic graph (DAG) whose underlying undirected graph is a tree.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A polyforest (or directed forest or oriented forest) is a directed acyclic graph whose underlying undirected graph is a forest.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Petersen graph and its generalizations; perfect graphs; cographs; chordal graphs; other graphs with large automorphism groups: vertex-transitive, arc-transitive, and distance-transitive graphs; strongly regular graphs and their generalizations distance-regular graphs.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Two vertices of a directed graph are called consecutive if the head of the first one is the tail of the second one.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Similarly, two vertices are called adjacent if they share a common edge (consecutive if the first one is the tail and the second one is the head of an edge), in which case the common edge is said to join the two vertices.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — The graph with no vertices and no edges is sometimes called the null graph or empty graph, but the terminology is not consistent and not all mathematicians allow this object.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Normally, the vertices of a graph, by their nature as elements of a set, are distinguishable.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — However, for many questions it is better to treat vertices as indistinguishable. (Of course, the vertices may be still distinguishable by the properties of the graph itself, e.g., by the numbers of incident edges.) The same remarks apply to edges, so graphs with labeled edges are called edge-labeled.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Graphs with labels attached to edges or vertices are more generally designated as labeled.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Consequently, graphs in which vertices are indistinguishable and edges are indistinguishable are called unlabeled. (In the literature, the term labeled may apply to other kinds of labeling, besides that which serves only to distinguish different vertices or edges.) The category of directed multigraphs permitting loops is the comma category Set ↓ D where D: Set → Set is the functor taking a set s to s × s.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — The diagram is a schematic representation of the graph with vertices V = { 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 } {\displaystyle V=\{1,2,3,4,5,6\}} and edges E = { { 1 , 2 } , { 1 , 5 } , { 2 , 3 } , { 2 , 5 } , { 3 , 4 } , { 4 , 5 } , { 4 , 6 } } . {\displaystyle E=\{\{1,2\},\{1,5\},\{2,3\},\{2,5\},\{3,4\},\{4,5\},\{4,6\}\}.}
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In computer science, directed graphs are used to represent knowledge (e.g., conceptual graph), finite-state machines, and many other discrete structures.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — An element x of X is a direct predecessor of an element y of X if and only if xRy.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — A directed graph can model information networks such as Twitter, with one user following another.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Particularly regular examples of directed graphs are given by the Cayley graphs of finitely-generated groups, as well as Schreier coset graphs In category theory, every small category has an underlying directed multigraph whose vertices are the objects of the category, and whose edges are the arrows of the category.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In the language of category theory, one says that there is a forgetful functor from the category of small categories to the category of quivers.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — There are several operations that produce new graphs from initial ones, which might be classified into the following categories:
Graph (discrete mathematics) — unary operations, which create a new graph from an initial one, such as: edge contraction, line graph, dual graph, complement graph, graph rewriting; binary operations, which create a new graph from two initial ones, such as: disjoint union of graphs, cartesian product of graphs, tensor product of graphs, strong product of graphs, lexicographic product of graphs, series–parallel graphs.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — == Generalizations == In a hypergraph, an edge can join any positive number of vertices.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — An undirected graph can be seen as a simplicial complex consisting of 1-simplices (the edges) and 0-simplices (the vertices).
Graph (discrete mathematics) — As such, complexes are generalizations of graphs since they allow for higher-dimensional simplices.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — But in that case, there is no limitation on the number of edges: it can be any cardinal number, see continuous graph.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In computational biology, power graph analysis introduces power graphs as an alternative representation of undirected graphs.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — In geographic information systems, geometric networks are closely modeled after graphs, and borrow many concepts from graph theory to perform spatial analysis on road networks or utility grids.
Graph (discrete mathematics) — == See also == Conceptual graph Graph (abstract data type) Graph database Graph drawing List of graph theory topics List of publications in graph theory Network theory
Graph (discrete mathematics) — Media related to Graph (discrete mathematics) at Wikimedia Commons Weisstein, Eric W. "Graph".
Graph theory — In mathematics and computer science, graph theory is the study of graphs, which are mathematical structures used to model pairwise relations between objects.
Graph theory — A graph in this context is made up of vertices (also called nodes or points) which are connected by edges (also called arcs, links or lines).
Graph theory — A distinction is made between undirected graphs, where edges link two vertices symmetrically, and directed graphs, where edges link two vertices asymmetrically.
Graph theory — The following are some of the more basic ways of defining graphs and related mathematical structures.
Graph theory — In one restricted but very common sense of the term, a graph is an ordered pair G = ( V , E ) {\displaystyle G=(V,E)} comprising:
Graph theory — E ⊆ { { x , y } ∣ x , y ∈ V and x ≠ y } {\displaystyle E\subseteq \{\{x,y\}\mid x,y\in V\;{\textrm {and}}\;x\neq y\}} , a set of edges (also called links or lines), which are unordered pairs of vertices (that is, an edge is associated with two distinct vertices).
Graph theory — To avoid ambiguity, this type of object may be called an undirected simple graph.
Graph theory — In the edge { x , y } {\displaystyle \{x,y\}} , the vertices x {\displaystyle x} and y {\displaystyle y} are called the endpoints of the edge.
Graph theory — The edge is said to join x {\displaystyle x} and y {\displaystyle y} and to be incident on x {\displaystyle x} and on y {\displaystyle y} .
Graph theory — Under this definition, multiple edges, in which two or more edges connect the same vertices, are not allowed.
Graph theory — In one more general sense of the term allowing multiple edges, a graph is an ordered triple G = ( V , E , ϕ ) {\displaystyle G=(V,E,\phi )} comprising:
Graph theory — ϕ : E → { { x , y } ∣ x , y ∈ V and x ≠ y } {\displaystyle \phi :E\to \{\{x,y\}\mid x,y\in V\;{\textrm {and}}\;x\neq y\}} , an incidence function mapping every edge to an unordered pair of vertices (that is, an edge is associated with two distinct vertices).
Graph theory — Graphs as defined in the two definitions above cannot have loops, because a loop joining a vertex x {\displaystyle x} to itself is the edge (for an undirected simple graph) or is incident on (for an undirected multigraph) { x , x } = { x } {\displaystyle \{x,x\}=\{x\}} which is not in { { x , y } ∣ x , y ∈ V and x ≠ y } {\displaystyle \{\{x,y\}\mid x,y\in V\;{\textrm {and}}\;x\neq y\}} .
Graph theory — For undirected simple graphs, the definition of E {\displaystyle E} should be modified to E ⊆ { { x , y } ∣ x , y ∈ V } {\displaystyle E\subseteq \{\{x,y\}\mid x,y\in V\}} .
Graph theory — For undirected multigraphs, the definition of ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } should be modified to ϕ : E → { { x , y } ∣ x , y ∈ V } {\displaystyle \phi :E\to \{\{x,y\}\mid x,y\in V\}} .
Graph theory — To avoid ambiguity, these types of objects may be called undirected simple graph permitting loops and undirected multigraph permitting loops (sometimes also undirected pseudograph), respectively.
Graph theory — V {\displaystyle V} and E {\displaystyle E} are usually taken to be finite, and many of the well-known results are not true (or are rather different) for infinite graphs because many of the arguments fail in the infinite case.
Graph theory — Moreover, V {\displaystyle V} is often assumed to be non-empty, but E {\displaystyle E} is allowed to be the empty set.
Graph theory — The degree or valency of a vertex is the number of edges that are incident to it, where a loop is counted twice.
Graph theory — In an undirected simple graph of order n, the maximum degree of each vertex is n − 1 and the maximum size of the graph is ⁠n(n − 1)/2⁠.
Graph theory — The edges of an undirected simple graph permitting loops G {\displaystyle G} induce a symmetric homogeneous relation ∼ {\displaystyle \sim } on the vertices of G {\displaystyle G} that is called the adjacency relation of G {\displaystyle G} .
Graph theory — Specifically, for each edge ( x , y ) {\displaystyle (x,y)} , its endpoints x {\displaystyle x} and y {\displaystyle y} are said to be adjacent to one another, which is denoted x ∼ y {\displaystyle x\sim y} .
Graph theory — In one restricted but very common sense of the term, a directed graph is an ordered pair G = ( V , E ) {\displaystyle G=(V,E)} comprising:
Graph theory — E ⊆ { ( x , y ) ∣ ( x , y ) ∈ V 2 and x ≠ y } {\displaystyle E\subseteq \left\{(x,y)\mid (x,y)\in V^{2}\;{\textrm {and}}\;x\neq y\right\}} , a set of edges (also called directed edges, directed links, directed lines, arrows or arcs) which are ordered pairs of vertices (that is, an edge is associated with two distinct vertices).
Graph theory — In set theory and graph theory, V n {\displaystyle V^{n}} denotes the set of n-tuples of elements of V , {\displaystyle V,} that is, ordered sequences of n {\displaystyle n} elements that are not necessarily distinct.
Graph theory — In the edge ( x , y ) {\displaystyle (x,y)} directed from x {\displaystyle x} to y {\displaystyle y} , the vertices x {\displaystyle x} and y {\displaystyle y} are called the endpoints of the edge, x {\displaystyle x} the tail of the edge and y {\displaystyle y} the head of the edge.
Graph theory — The edge ( y , x ) {\displaystyle (y,x)} is called the inverted edge of ( x , y ) {\displaystyle (x,y)} .
Graph theory — Multiple edges, not allowed under the definition above, are two or more edges with both the same tail and the same head.
Graph theory — In one more general sense of the term allowing multiple edges, a directed graph is an ordered triple G = ( V , E , ϕ ) {\displaystyle G=(V,E,\phi )} comprising:
Graph theory — E {\displaystyle E} , a set of edges (also called directed edges, directed links, directed lines, arrows or arcs);
Graph theory — ϕ : E → { ( x , y ) ∣ ( x , y ) ∈ V 2 and x ≠ y } {\displaystyle \phi :E\to \left\{(x,y)\mid (x,y)\in V^{2}\;{\textrm {and}}\;x\neq y\right\}} , an incidence function mapping every edge to an ordered pair of vertices (that is, an edge is associated with two distinct vertices).
Graph theory — Directed graphs as defined in the two definitions above cannot have loops, because a loop joining a vertex x {\displaystyle x} to itself is the edge (for a directed simple graph) or is incident on (for a directed multigraph) ( x , x ) {\displaystyle (x,x)} which is not in { ( x , y ) ∣ ( x , y ) ∈ V 2 and x ≠ y } {\displaystyle \left\{(x,y)\mid (x,y)\in V^{2}\;{\textrm {and}}\;x\neq y\right\}} .
Graph theory — For directed simple graphs, the definition of E {\displaystyle E} should be modified to E ⊆ { ( x , y ) ∣ ( x , y ) ∈ V 2 } {\displaystyle E\subseteq \left\{(x,y)\mid (x,y)\in V^{2}\right\}} .
Graph theory — For directed multigraphs, the definition of ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } should be modified to ϕ : E → { ( x , y ) ∣ ( x , y ) ∈ V 2 } {\displaystyle \phi :E\to \left\{(x,y)\mid (x,y)\in V^{2}\right\}} .
Graph theory — To avoid ambiguity, these types of objects may be called precisely a directed simple graph permitting loops and a directed multigraph permitting loops (or a quiver) respectively.
Graph theory — The edges of a directed simple graph permitting loops G {\displaystyle G} is a homogeneous relation ~ on the vertices of G {\displaystyle G} that is called the adjacency relation of G {\displaystyle G} .
Graph theory — Specifically, for each edge ( x , y ) {\displaystyle (x,y)} , its endpoints x {\displaystyle x} and y {\displaystyle y} are said to be adjacent to one another, which is denoted x {\displaystyle x} ~ y {\displaystyle y} .
Graph theory — Graphs can be used to model many types of relations and processes in physical, biological, social and information systems.
Graph theory — Emphasizing their application to real-world systems, the term network is sometimes defined to mean a graph in which attributes (e.g. names) are associated with the vertices and edges, and the subject that expresses and understands real-world systems as a network is called network science.
Graph theory — === Computer science === Within computer science, 'causal' and 'non-causal' linked structures are graphs that are used to represent networks of communication, data organization, computational devices, the flow of computation, etc.
Graph theory — For instance, the link structure of a website can be represented by a directed graph, in which the vertices(nodes) represent web pages and directed edges represent links from one page to another.
Graph theory — A similar approach can be taken to problems in social media, travel, biology, computer chip design, mapping the progression of neuro-degenerative diseases, and many other fields.
Graph theory — The development of algorithms to handle graphs is therefore of major interest in computer science.
Graph theory — The transformation of graphs is often formalized and represented by graph rewrite systems.
Graph theory — Complementary to graph transformation systems focusing on rule-based in-memory manipulation of graphs are graph databases geared towards transaction-safe, persistent storing and querying of graph-structured data.
Graph theory — === Linguistics === Graph-theoretic methods, in various forms, have proven particularly useful in linguistics, since natural language often lends itself well to discrete structure.
Graph theory — Traditionally, syntax and compositional semantics follow tree-based structures, whose expressive power lies in the principle of compositionality, modeled in a hierarchical graph.
Graph theory — More contemporary approaches such as head-driven phrase structure grammar model the syntax of natural language using typed feature structures, which are directed acyclic graphs.
Graph theory — Within lexical semantics, especially as applied to computers, modeling word meaning is easier when a given word is understood in terms of related words; semantic networks are therefore important in computational linguistics.
Graph theory — Still, other methods in phonology (e.g. optimality theory, which uses lattice graphs) and morphology (e.g. finite-state morphology, using finite-state transducers) are common in the analysis of language as a graph.
Graph theory — Indeed, the usefulness of this area of mathematics to linguistics has borne organizations such as TextGraphs, as well as various 'Net' projects, such as WordNet, VerbNet, and others.
Graph theory — === Physics and chemistry === Graph theory is also used to study molecules in chemistry and physics.
Graph theory — In condensed matter physics, the three-dimensional structure of complicated simulated atomic structures can be studied quantitatively by gathering statistics on graph-theoretic properties related to the topology of the atoms.
Graph theory — Also, "the Feynman graphs and rules of calculation summarize quantum field theory in a form in close contact with the experimental numbers one wants to understand." In chemistry a graph makes a natural model for a molecule, where vertices represent atoms and edges bonds.
Graph theory — This approach is especially used in computer processing of molecular structures, ranging from chemical editors to database searching.
Graph theory — In statistical physics, graphs can represent local connections between interacting parts of a system, as well as the dynamics of a physical process on such systems.
Graph theory — Similarly, in computational neuroscience graphs can be used to represent functional connections between brain areas that interact to give rise to various cognitive processes, where the vertices represent different areas of the brain and the edges represent the connections between those areas.
Graph theory — Graph theory plays an important role in electrical modeling of electrical networks, here, weights are associated with resistance of the wire segments to obtain electrical properties of network structures.
Graph theory — Graphs are also used to represent the micro-scale channels of porous media, in which the vertices represent the pores and the edges represent the smaller channels connecting the pores.
Graph theory — Graphs and networks are excellent models to study and understand phase transitions and critical phenomena.
Graph theory — Removal of nodes or edges leads to a critical transition where the network breaks into small clusters which is studied as a phase transition.
Graph theory — Graph theory is also widely used in sociology as a way, for example, to measure actors' prestige or to explore rumor spreading, notably through the use of social network analysis software.
Graph theory — Influence graphs model whether certain people can influence the behavior of others.
Graph theory — Finally, collaboration graphs model whether two people work together in a particular way, such as acting in a movie together.
Graph theory — === Biology === Likewise, graph theory is useful in biology and conservation efforts where a vertex can represent regions where certain species exist (or inhabit) and the edges represent migration paths or movement between the regions.
Graph theory — This information is important when looking at breeding patterns or tracking the spread of disease, parasites or how changes to the movement can affect other species.
Graph theory — Graphs are also commonly used in molecular biology and genomics to model and analyse datasets with complex relationships.
Graph theory — For example, graph-based methods are often used to 'cluster' cells together into cell-types in single-cell transcriptome analysis.
Graph theory — Another use is to model genes or proteins in a pathway and study the relationships between them, such as metabolic pathways and gene regulatory networks.
Graph theory — Evolutionary trees, ecological networks, and hierarchical clustering of gene expression patterns are also represented as graph structures.
Graph theory — Graph theory is also used in connectomics; nervous systems can be seen as a graph, where the nodes are neurons and the edges are the connections between them.
Graph theory — === Mathematics === In mathematics, graphs are useful in geometry and certain parts of topology such as knot theory.
Graph theory — Algebraic graph theory has been applied to many areas including dynamic systems and complexity.
Graph theory — === Other topics === A graph structure can be extended by assigning a weight to each edge of the graph.
Graph theory — Graphs with weights, or weighted graphs, are used to represent structures in which pairwise connections have some numerical values.
Graph theory — For example, if a graph represents a road network, the weights could represent the length of each road.
Graph theory — There may be several weights associated with each edge, including distance (as in the previous example), travel time, or monetary cost.
Graph theory — Such weighted graphs are commonly used to program GPS's, and travel-planning search engines that compare flight times and costs.
Graph theory — The paper written by Leonhard Euler on the Seven Bridges of Königsberg and published in 1736 is regarded as the first paper in the history of graph theory.
Graph theory — This paper, as well as the one written by Vandermonde on the knight problem, carried on with the analysis situs initiated by Leibniz.
Graph theory — Euler's formula relating the number of edges, vertices, and faces of a convex polyhedron was studied and generalized by Cauchy and L'Huilier, and represents the beginning of the branch of mathematics known as topology.
Graph theory — More than one century after Euler's paper on the bridges of Königsberg and while Listing was introducing the concept of topology, Cayley was led by an interest in particular analytical forms arising from differential calculus to study a particular class of graphs, the trees.
Graph theory — The techniques he used mainly concern the enumeration of graphs with particular properties.
Graph theory — Enumerative graph theory then arose from the results of Cayley and the fundamental results published by Pólya between 1935 and 1937.
Graph theory — Cayley linked his results on trees with contemporary studies of chemical composition.
Graph theory — The fusion of ideas from mathematics with those from chemistry began what has become part of the standard terminology of graph theory.
Graph theory — In particular, the term "graph" was introduced by Sylvester in a paper published in 1878 in Nature, where he draws an analogy between "quantic invariants" and "co-variants" of algebra and molecular diagrams:
Graph theory — "[…] Every invariant and co-variant thus becomes expressible by a graph precisely identical with a Kekuléan diagram or chemicograph. […] I give a rule for the geometrical multiplication of graphs, i.e. for constructing a graph to the product of in- or co-variants whose separate graphs are given. […]" (italics as in the original).
Graph theory — The first textbook on graph theory was written by Dénes Kőnig, and published in 1936.
Graph theory — Another book by Frank Harary, published in 1969, was "considered the world over to be the definitive textbook on the subject", and enabled mathematicians, chemists, electrical engineers and social scientists to talk to each other.
Graph theory — One of the most famous and stimulating problems in graph theory is the four color problem: "Is it true that any map drawn in the plane may have its regions colored with four colors, in such a way that any two regions having a common border have different colors?" This problem was first posed by Francis Guthrie in 1852 and its first written record is in a letter of De Morgan addressed to Hamilton the same year.
Graph theory — Many incorrect proofs have been proposed, including those by Cayley, Kempe, and others.
Graph theory — The study and the generalization of this problem by Tait, Heawood, Ramsey and Hadwiger led to the study of the colorings of the graphs embedded on surfaces with arbitrary genus.
Graph theory — Tait's reformulation generated a new class of problems, the factorization problems, particularly studied by Petersen and Kőnig.
Graph theory — The works of Ramsey on colorations and more specially the results obtained by Turán in 1941 was at the origin of another branch of graph theory, extremal graph theory.
Graph theory — In 1969 Heinrich Heesch published a method for solving the problem using computers.
Graph theory — A computer-aided proof produced in 1976 by Kenneth Appel and Wolfgang Haken makes fundamental use of the notion of "discharging" developed by Heesch.
Graph theory — The proof involved checking the properties of 1,936 configurations by computer, and was not fully accepted at the time due to its complexity.
Graph theory — A simpler proof considering only 633 configurations was given twenty years later by Robertson, Seymour, Sanders and Thomas.
Graph theory — The autonomous development of topology from 1860 and 1930 fertilized graph theory back through the works of Jordan, Kuratowski and Whitney.
Graph theory — Another important factor of common development of graph theory and topology came from the use of the techniques of modern algebra.
Graph theory — The first example of such a use comes from the work of the physicist Gustav Kirchhoff, who published in 1845 his Kirchhoff's circuit laws for calculating the voltage and current in electric circuits.
Graph theory — The introduction of probabilistic methods in graph theory, especially in the study of Erdős and Rényi of the asymptotic probability of graph connectivity, gave rise to yet another branch, known as random graph theory, which has been a fruitful source of graph-theoretic results.
Graph theory — == Representation == A graph is an abstraction of relationships that emerge in nature; hence, it cannot be coupled to a certain representation.
Graph theory — The way it is represented depends on the degree of convenience such representation provides for a certain application.
Graph theory — The most common representations are the visual, in which, usually, vertices are drawn and connected by edges, and the tabular, in which rows of a table provide information about the relationships between the vertices within the graph.
Graph theory — Graphs are usually represented visually by drawing a point or circle for every vertex, and drawing a line between two vertices if they are connected by an edge.
Graph theory — A graph drawing should not be confused with the graph itself (the abstract, non-visual structure) as there are several ways to structure the graph drawing.
Graph theory — All that matters is which vertices are connected to which others by how many edges and not the exact layout.
Graph theory — In practice, it is often difficult to decide if two drawings represent the same graph.
Graph theory — Depending on the problem domain some layouts may be better suited and easier to understand than others.
Graph theory — Among other achievements, he introduced the use of linear algebraic methods to obtain graph drawings.
Graph theory — Graph drawing also can be said to encompass problems that deal with the crossing number and its various generalizations.
Graph theory — The crossing number of a graph is the minimum number of intersections between edges that a drawing of the graph in the plane must contain.
Graph theory — There are other techniques to visualize a graph away from vertices and edges, including circle packings, intersection graph, and other visualizations of the adjacency matrix.
Graph theory — The data structure used depends on both the graph structure and the algorithm used for manipulating the graph.
Graph theory — Theoretically one can distinguish between list and matrix structures but in concrete applications the best structure is often a combination of both.
Graph theory — List structures are often preferred for sparse graphs as they have smaller memory requirements.
Graph theory — Matrix structures on the other hand provide faster access for some applications but can consume huge amounts of memory.
Graph theory — Implementations of sparse matrix structures that are efficient on modern parallel computer architectures are an object of current investigation.
Graph theory — List structures include the edge list, an array of pairs of vertices, and the adjacency list, which separately lists the neighbors of each vertex: Much like the edge list, each vertex has a list of which vertices it is adjacent to.
Graph theory — Matrix structures include the incidence matrix, a matrix of 0's and 1's whose rows represent vertices and whose columns represent edges, and the adjacency matrix, in which both the rows and columns are indexed by vertices.
Graph theory — In both cases a 1 indicates two adjacent objects and a 0 indicates two non-adjacent objects.
Graph theory — The Laplacian matrix is a modified form of the adjacency matrix that incorporates information about the degrees of the vertices, and is useful in some calculations such as Kirchhoff's theorem on the number of spanning trees of a graph.
Graph theory — The distance matrix, like the adjacency matrix, has both its rows and columns indexed by vertices, but rather than containing a 0 or a 1 in each cell it contains the length of a shortest path between two vertices.
Graph theory — === Enumeration === There is a large literature on graphical enumeration: the problem of counting graphs meeting specified conditions.
Graph theory — === Subgraphs, induced subgraphs, and minors === A common problem, called the subgraph isomorphism problem, is finding a fixed graph as a subgraph in a given graph.
Graph theory — One reason to be interested in such a question is that many graph properties are hereditary for subgraphs, which means that a graph has the property if and only if all subgraphs have it too.
Graph theory — Finding the largest complete subgraph is called the clique problem (NP-complete).
Graph theory — It is not known whether this problem is NP-complete, nor whether it can be solved in polynomial time.
Graph theory — Again, some important graph properties are hereditary with respect to induced subgraphs, which means that a graph has a property if and only if all induced subgraphs also have it.
Graph theory — Finding the largest edgeless induced subgraph or independent set is called the independent set problem (NP-complete).
Graph theory — Still another such problem, the minor containment problem, is to find a fixed graph as a minor of a given graph.
Graph theory — A minor or subcontraction of a graph is any graph obtained by taking a subgraph and contracting some (or no) edges.
Graph theory — Many graph properties are hereditary for minors, which means that a graph has a property if and only if all minors have it too.
Graph theory — A graph is planar if it contains as a minor neither the complete bipartite graph K3,3 (see the Three-cottage problem) nor the complete graph K5.
Graph theory — A similar problem, the subdivision containment problem, is to find a fixed graph as a subdivision of a given graph.
Graph theory — A subdivision or homeomorphism of a graph is any graph obtained by subdividing some (or no) edges.
Graph theory — A graph is planar if it contains as a subdivision neither the complete bipartite graph K3,3 nor the complete graph K5.
Graph theory — Every 5-vertex-connected graph that is not planar contains a subdivision of the 5-vertex complete graph K5.
Graph theory — Another class of problems has to do with the extent to which various species and generalizations of graphs are determined by their point-deleted subgraphs.
Graph theory — Many problems and theorems in graph theory have to do with various ways of coloring graphs.
Graph theory — Typically, one is interested in coloring a graph so that no two adjacent vertices have the same color, or with other similar restrictions.
Graph theory — One may also consider coloring edges (possibly so that no two coincident edges are the same color), or other variations.
Graph theory — Among the famous results and conjectures concerning graph coloring are the following:
Graph theory — Four-color theorem Strong perfect graph theorem Erdős–Faber–Lovász conjecture Total coloring conjecture, also called Behzad's conjecture (unsolved) List coloring conjecture (unsolved) Hadwiger conjecture (graph theory) (unsolved)
Graph theory — === Subsumption and unification === Constraint modeling theories concern families of directed graphs related by a partial order.
Graph theory — In these applications, graphs are ordered by specificity, meaning that more constrained graphs—which are more specific and thus contain a greater amount of information—are subsumed by those that are more general.
Graph theory — Operations between graphs include evaluating the direction of a subsumption relationship between two graphs, if any, and computing graph unification.
Graph theory — The unification of two argument graphs is defined as the most general graph (or the computation thereof) that is consistent with (i.e. contains all of the information in) the inputs, if such a graph exists; efficient unification algorithms are known.
Graph theory — For constraint frameworks which are strictly compositional, graph unification is the sufficient satisfiability and combination function.
Graph theory — Well-known applications include automatic theorem proving and modeling the elaboration of linguistic structure.
Graph theory — === Route problems === Hamiltonian path problem Minimum spanning tree Route inspection problem (also called the "Chinese postman problem") Seven bridges of Königsberg Shortest path problem Steiner tree Three-cottage problem Traveling salesman problem (NP-hard)
Graph theory — === Network flow === There are numerous problems arising especially from applications that have to do with various notions of flows in networks, for example:
Graph theory — === Covering problems === Covering problems in graphs may refer to various set cover problems on subsets of vertices/subgraphs.
Graph theory — Dominating set problem is the special case of set cover problem where sets are the closed neighborhoods.
Graph theory — Vertex cover problem is the special case of set cover problem where sets to cover are every edges.
Graph theory — The original set cover problem, also called hitting set, can be described as a vertex cover in a hypergraph.
Graph theory — === Decomposition problems === Decomposition, defined as partitioning the edge set of a graph (with as many vertices as necessary accompanying the edges of each part of the partition), has a wide variety of questions.
Graph theory — Often, the problem is to decompose a graph into subgraphs isomorphic to a fixed graph; for instance, decomposing a complete graph into Hamiltonian cycles.
Graph theory — Other problems specify a family of graphs into which a given graph should be decomposed, for instance, a family of cycles, or decomposing a complete graph Kn into n − 1 specified trees having, respectively, 1, 2, 3, ..., n − 1 edges.
Graph theory — Some specific decomposition problems and similar problems that have been studied include:
Graph theory — Arboricity, a decomposition into as few forests as possible Cycle double cover, a collection of cycles covering each edge exactly twice Edge coloring, a decomposition into as few matchings as possible Graph factorization, a decomposition of a regular graph into regular subgraphs of given degrees
Graph theory — === Graph classes === Many problems involve characterizing the members of various classes of graphs.
Graph theory — Enumerating the members of a class Characterizing a class in terms of forbidden substructures Ascertaining relationships among classes (e.g. does one property of graphs imply another) Finding efficient algorithms to decide membership in a class Finding representations for members of a class
Graph theory — == See also == Gallery of named graphs Glossary of graph theory List of graph theory topics List of unsolved problems in graph theory Publications in graph theory Graph algorithm Graph theorists
Graph theory — === Subareas === Algebraic graph theory Geometric graph theory Extremal graph theory Probabilistic graph theory Topological graph theory Graph drawing
Graph theory — Wilson: Milestones in Graph Theory: A Century of Progress, AMS/MAA, (SPECTRUM, v.108), ISBN 978-1-4704-6431-8 (2025).
Graph theory — English edition, Wiley 1961; Methuen & Co, New York 1962; Russian, Moscow 1961; Spanish, Mexico 1962; Roumanian, Bucharest 1969; Chinese, Shanghai 1963; Second printing of the 1962 first English edition, Dover, New York 2001.
Graph theory — Mathematical results on scale-free random graphs in "Handbook of Graphs and Networks" (S.
Graph theory — "Graph theory", Encyclopedia of Mathematics, EMS Press, 2001 [1994] Graph theory tutorial Archived 2012-01-16 at the Wayback Machine A searchable database of small connected graphs House of Graphs — searchable database of graphs with a drawing-based search feature.
Graph theory — Image gallery: graphs at the Wayback Machine (archived February 6, 2006) Concise, annotated list of graph theory resources for researchers rocs — a graph theory IDE The Social Life of Routers — non-technical paper discussing graphs of people and computers Graph Theory Software — tools to teach and learn graph theory Online books, and library resources in your library and in other libraries about graph theory A list of graph algorithms Archived 2019-07-13 at the Wayback Machine with references and links to graph library implementations
Graph theory — === Online textbooks === Phase Transitions in Combinatorial Optimization Problems, Section 3: Introduction to Graphs (2006) by Hartmann and Weigt Digraphs: Theory Algorithms and Applications 2007 by Jorgen Bang-Jensen and Gregory Gutin Graph Theory, by Reinhard Diestel
Shortest path problem — In graph theory, the shortest path problem is the problem of finding a path between two vertices (or nodes) in a graph such that the sum of the weights of its constituent edges is minimized.
Shortest path problem — The problem of finding the shortest path between two intersections on a road map may be modeled as a special case of the shortest path problem in graphs, where the vertices correspond to intersections and the edges correspond to road segments, each weighted by the length or distance of each segment.
Shortest path problem — == Definition == The shortest path problem can be defined for graphs whether undirected, directed, or mixed.
Shortest path problem — The definition for undirected graphs states that every edge can be traversed in either direction.
Shortest path problem — Directed graphs require that consecutive vertices be connected by an appropriate directed edge.
Shortest path problem — A path in an undirected graph is a sequence of vertices P = ( v 1 , v 2 , … , v n ) ∈ V × V × ⋯ × V {\displaystyle P=(v_{1},v_{2},\ldots ,v_{n})\in V\times V\times \cdots \times V} such that v i {\displaystyle v_{i}} is adjacent to v i + 1 {\displaystyle v_{i+1}} for 1 ≤ i < n {\displaystyle 1\leq i<n} .
Shortest path problem — Such a path P {\displaystyle P} is called a path of length n − 1 {\displaystyle n-1} from v 1 {\displaystyle v_{1}} to v n {\displaystyle v_{n}} . (The v i {\displaystyle v_{i}} are variables; their numbering relates to their position in the sequence and need not relate to a canonical labeling.) Let E = { e i , j } {\displaystyle E=\{e_{i,j}\}} where e i , j {\displaystyle e_{i,j}} is the edge incident to both v i {\displaystyle v_{i}} and v j {\displaystyle v_{j}} .
Shortest path problem — Given a real-valued weight function f : E → R {\displaystyle f:E\rightarrow \mathbb {R} } , and an undirected (simple) graph G {\displaystyle G} , the shortest path from v {\displaystyle v} to v ′ {\displaystyle v'} is the path P = ( v 1 , v 2 , … , v n ) {\displaystyle P=(v_{1},v_{2},\ldots ,v_{n})} (where v 1 = v {\displaystyle v_{1}=v} and v n = v ′ {\displaystyle v_{n}=v'} ) that over all possible n {\displaystyle n} minimizes the sum ∑ i = 1 n − 1 f ( e i , i + 1 ) . {\displaystyle \sum _{i=1}^{n-1}f(e_{i,i+1}).} When each edge in the graph has unit weight or f : E → { 1 } {\displaystyle f:E\rightarrow \{1\}} , this is equivalent to finding the path with fewest edges.
Shortest path problem — The problem is also sometimes called the single-pair shortest path problem, to distinguish it from the following variations:
Shortest path problem — The single-source shortest path problem, in which we have to find shortest paths from a source vertex v to all other vertices in the graph.
Shortest path problem — The single-destination shortest path problem, in which we have to find shortest paths from all vertices in the directed graph to a single destination vertex v.
Shortest path problem — This can be reduced to the single-source shortest path problem by reversing the arcs in the directed graph.
Shortest path problem — The all-pairs shortest path problem, in which we have to find shortest paths between every pair of vertices v, v' in the graph.
Shortest path problem — These generalizations have significantly more efficient algorithms than the simplistic approach of running a single-pair shortest path algorithm on all relevant pairs of vertices.
Shortest path problem — == Algorithms == Several well-known algorithms exist for solving this problem and its variants.
Shortest path problem — Dijkstra's algorithm solves the single-source shortest path problem with only non-negative edge weights.
Shortest path problem — Bellman–Ford algorithm solves the single-source problem if edge weights may be negative.
Shortest path problem — A* search algorithm solves for single-pair shortest path using heuristics to try to speed up the search.
Shortest path problem — Johnson's algorithm solves all pairs shortest paths, and may be faster than Floyd–Warshall on sparse graphs.
Shortest path problem — Viterbi algorithm solves the shortest stochastic path problem with an additional probabilistic weight on each node.
Shortest path problem — Additional algorithms and associated evaluations may be found in Cherkassky, Goldberg & Radzik (1996).
Shortest path problem — === Directed acyclic graphs === An algorithm using topological sorting can solve the single-source shortest path problem in time Θ(E + V) in arbitrarily-weighted directed acyclic graphs.
Shortest path problem — === Directed graphs with nonnegative weights === The following table is taken from Schrijver (2004), with some corrections and additions.
Shortest path problem — A green background indicates an asymptotically best bound in the table; L is the maximum length (or weight) among all edges, assuming integer edge weights.
Shortest path problem — === Directed graphs with arbitrary weights with negative cycles === Finds a negative cycle or calculates distances to all vertices.
Shortest path problem — == Applications == Network flows are a fundamental concept in graph theory and operations research, often used to model problems involving the transportation of goods, liquids, or information through a network.
Shortest path problem — A network flow problem typically involves a directed graph where each edge represents a pipe, wire, or road, and each edge has a capacity, which is the maximum amount that can flow through it.
Shortest path problem — The goal is to find a feasible flow that maximizes the flow from a source node to a sink node.
Shortest path problem — Shortest Path Problems can be used to solve certain network flow problems, particularly when dealing with single-source, single-sink networks.
Shortest path problem — In these scenarios, we can transform the network flow problem into a series of shortest path problems.
Shortest path problem — Create a Residual Graph: For each edge (u, v) in the original graph, create two edges in the residual graph: (u, v) with capacity c(u, v) (v, u) with capacity 0 The residual graph represents the remaining capacity available in the network.
Shortest path problem — Find the Shortest Path: Use a shortest path algorithm (e.g., Dijkstra's algorithm, Bellman-Ford algorithm) to find the shortest path from the source node to the sink node in the residual graph.
Shortest path problem — Decrease the capacity of the edges in the forward direction and increase the capacity of the edges in the backward direction.
Shortest path problem — Update the Residual Graph: Update the residual graph based on the augmented flow.
Shortest path problem — Repeat: Repeat steps 2-4 until no more paths can be found from the source to the sink.
Shortest path problem — == All-pairs shortest paths == The all-pairs shortest path problem finds the shortest paths between every pair of vertices v, v' in the graph.
Shortest path problem — The all-pairs shortest paths problem for unweighted directed graphs was introduced by Shimbel (1953), who observed that it could be solved by a linear number of matrix multiplications that takes a total time of O(V4).
Shortest path problem — == Applications == Shortest path algorithms are applied to automatically find directions between physical locations, such as driving directions on web mapping websites like MapQuest or Google Maps.
Shortest path problem — If one represents a nondeterministic abstract machine as a graph where vertices describe states and edges describe possible transitions, shortest path algorithms can be used to find an optimal sequence of choices to reach a certain goal state, or to establish lower bounds on the time needed to reach a given state.
Shortest path problem — For example, if vertices represent the states of a puzzle like a Rubik's Cube and each directed edge corresponds to a single move or turn, shortest path algorithms can be used to find a solution that uses the minimum possible number of moves.
Shortest path problem — In a networking or telecommunications mindset, this shortest path problem is sometimes called the min-delay path problem and usually tied with a widest path problem.
Shortest path problem — For example, the algorithm may seek the shortest (min-delay) widest path, or widest shortest (min-delay) path.
Shortest path problem — A more lighthearted application is the games of "six degrees of separation" that try to find the shortest path in graphs like movie stars appearing in the same film.
Shortest path problem — Other applications, often studied in operations research, include plant and facility layout, robotics, transportation, and VLSI design.
Shortest path problem — === Road networks === A road network can be considered as a graph with positive weights.
Shortest path problem — The nodes represent road junctions and each edge of the graph is associated with a road segment between two junctions.
Shortest path problem — The weight of an edge may correspond to the length of the associated road segment, the time needed to traverse the segment, or the cost of traversing the segment.
Shortest path problem — Such graphs are special in the sense that some edges are more important than others for long-distance travel (e.g. highways).
Shortest path problem — There are a great number of algorithms that exploit this property and are therefore able to compute the shortest path a lot quicker than would be possible on general graphs.
Shortest path problem — In the first phase, the graph is preprocessed without knowing the source or target node.
Shortest path problem — The idea is that the road network is static, so the preprocessing phase can be done once and used for a large number of queries on the same road network.
Shortest path problem — The algorithm with the fastest known query time is called hub labeling and is able to compute shortest path on the road networks of Europe or the US in a fraction of a microsecond.
Shortest path problem — ALT (A* search, landmarks, and triangle inequality) Arc flags Contraction hierarchies Transit node routing Reach-based pruning Labeling Hub labels
Shortest path problem — == Related problems == For shortest path problems in computational geometry, see Euclidean shortest path.
Shortest path problem — The shortest multiple disconnected path is a representation of the primitive path network within the framework of Reptation theory.
Shortest path problem — The widest path problem seeks a path so that the minimum label of any edge is as large as possible.
Shortest path problem — === Paths with constraints === Unlike the shortest path problem, which can be solved in polynomial time in graphs without negative cycles, shortest path problems which include additional constraints on the desired solution path are called Constrained Shortest Path First, and are harder to solve.
Shortest path problem — One example is the constrained shortest path problem, which attempts to minimize the total cost of the path while at the same time maintaining another metric below a given threshold.
Shortest path problem — This makes the problem NP-complete (such problems are not believed to be efficiently solvable for large sets of data, see P = NP problem).
