SHAME - by harry blazer - harry’s Substack harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in SHAME The only appropriate emotion to feel at this time. harry blazer Mar 02, 2026 1 Share I have attached a link to Scott Ritter’s scathing commentary regarding our and Israel’s criminal actions against Iran. His core analysis reflects my perspective as well (I don’t agree with some of the peripheral stuff like the scenarios involving dirty tricks if he were advising the president.) One thing that I learned from my study of the intelligence agencies, the Deep State and the black world they occupy, is that at their core, these groups are not interested in solving problems. They are interested in creating instability among those who resist their hegemony - which is not always the same as U.S. hegemony either. They create chaos intentionally as a primary change agent and business strategy - chaos is good for business. And by its nature, chaos comes with lots of unintended consequences as well as the ones intended. They don’t care. Budgets keep expanding. They are rewarded for criminality Trump has perpetrated multiple lies against the American people: He campaigned on no new wars. He lied He campaigned on exposing the Deep State. He lied. He campaigned on fiscal responsibility. He lied. He campaigned on America First. He lied. The only way that the unconstitutional war mongering of US presidents will be stopped is through impeachment, then conviction and then excommunication. But since the vast majority of representatives and senators have been coopted by the same military-industrial-intelligence-banking-zionist complex that presidents serve (including Trump), that won’t happen. Which puts many countries and people all over the world including us, in harms way on an ongoing basis. And bad behavior keeps getting celebrated and rewarded. As someone who was raised Jewish, I feel tremendous shame over Israel’s criminality. As an American, I feel tremendous shame over America’s unworthiness as the titular “leader of the free world”. As someone who voted for Trump, not because I liked him but because Kamala was that much worse, I feel contempt and disgust. Anyone who thinks that what we have done and are doing in Iran is justified, in America’s best interests or makes sense other than in the context of facilitating the goals of the intentional chaos creators , they are part of the problem in my opinion. So listen to the attached link and feel shame. And don’t be afraid to weep for how the LiGHT of many innocent souls and the planet, have been trampled on again. Scott Ritter's Analysis 1 Share Previous Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts