TRUMP: The Man Of The Decade - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in TRUMP: The Man Of The Decade Facilitating At Speed The Implementation Of The Control Grid harry blazer Feb 25, 2026 Share Catherine Fitts, whom I had an association with for years, told me once that Presidents are selected for their ability to fulfill a primary objective, regarded by those with the real power to be their top priority for the time. I have always felt that the top politicians are where they are in the power grid because of their ability to lie convincingly i.e. to market the primary agenda of the time, primarily through force of personality and bait and switch. You thought you were voting for Trump to dismantle the Deep State and optimize your freedom. Instead, he has moved at light speed to put in place the ultimate control grid that will turbo charge the Deep State and undermine our sovereignty in the most dramatic and fundamental of ways. This interview with Catherine Fitts explains the process and the result of this radical transformation - unless there is a major course correction. A correction which is unlikely from my perspective because there is too much money, power and momentum pushing what in many ways is a key substrate for the fulfillment of the Transhumanist Agenda (i.e. the reengineering of humans and the planet through technology - in particular nano, AI, and bio-engineering.) Unlikely also because of the way it is being marketed and because of most people’s indiscriminate view that technology is their friend. Trump and The Control Grid © Harry Blazer. All rights reserved. This work may be shared in full or in excerpted form with attribution, provided excerpts are presented faithfully and not in a misleading or distorting context. No derivative works that alter meaning and no commercial use are permitted without prior written consent. Use of these materials to justify coercive systems, secret authority or violations of human sovereignty is expressly prohibited. Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts