Gold and Silver Revisited - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Gold and Silver Revisited Playing out as expected harry blazer Feb 12, 2026 Share So I outlined the fundamental mechanics of the precious metal markets in these previous substacks: A Quick Lesson On The Price Of Gold And Silver and More On Precious Metals Trading. I reread these and I would not change anything. There is a lot of noise out there about these markets. There are just a few simple things to remember so you don’t lose your shirt or think that you have more insight into the perturbations than you actually possibly could: There are no real markets when it comes to precious metals - physical or virtual (derivatives). Real Markets have the following characteristics: They are lawful They are transparent. Everything there is to know is knowable by everyone. The rules regarding transactions cannot be changed willy nilly by external agents pushing their agendas. There are no extraordinary market forces/influences effecting prices i.e. effecting supply, demand, safety, delivery. That’s why today there are no real markets except local markets - like your local farmers market or craig’s list. The so called market fundamentals (like how much silver is mined each year vs used and other real demand factors that effect supply) may prevail over time, but are not relevant for anyone that does not have the capacity and the desire to hold an asset over time. During my time in the futures markets, I came to the conclusions that the whole point of these markets was to be able to steal from the little guy. And there are lots of ways to manipulate human greed and fear through pricing mechanisms that are manipulated. If someone is “splainin’” the reasons the price is this or that and what it is going to be in the near future, just remember this simple fact - the price will be whatever the Big Boys want it to be. By Big Boys I mean New York Banks (in particular JP Morgan Chase), the FED, occasionally the US Treasury and the bodies that govern the exchanges that take their marching orders from the institutions I just mentioned. The first three are the “guys” with the ability to buy and sell or hold 100’s of thousands of derivative “ contracts ” at at time, through which they can control 10’s of million of ounces of precious metals at a time - and in turn determine the trajectory of the derivative (paper) and physical markets. And they can use the markets to effect the value of whatever physical holdings they have at the time (or plan to have). They have a lock. The individual participant is a sheep. The Big Boys have the ability to change margin requirements (what it costs to transact a contract) and to change the rules of the game at every level. “How about we change the rules so that you can only buy today? Or only sell today? Or can only hold so many contracts, after they have all they want? Or that a contract costs 110% of the value of the underlying asset. Or 1%?” You cannot beat this machine. You cannot predict this machine most of the time. You can only at times get lucky if you are riding the wave in the direction of flow that they have geo-engineered . The markets do not represent real supply and demand fundamentals for any given reasonable time frame. Gold, the ultimate store of value, can’t be worth $3000 one week and then $5000 not that many weeks later - after trading for decades in an inflation adjusted range way below those numbers. That can only happen if the price is being manipulated. I had to laugh the other day. A commentator was mentioning how, almost miraculously, a price bottom occurred exactly at the moment of a very large JP Morgan trade. Hello. That is why that bottom happened. Because of that trade! I am not saying that one should not own precious metals. I wish I had been in a position not to have had to sell my holdings when gold was at $1500 and silver at $18, while sensing that in the not too distant future they would be selling for much more. And also sensing that these are some of the few financial “instruments” that have intrinsic value. And always having the sense that if the price of gold and silver truly reflected economic reality, they would be worth much more than the “market” price. Investing in gold and silver means owning/possessing it physically and being able to hold on to it for a long time. Everything else is speculating (gambling). And the speculative game is rigged. And as George Carlin Said: “It’s a Club, and you ain’t in it”. © Harry Blazer. All rights reserved. This work may be shared in full or in excerpted form with attribution, provided excerpts are presented faithfully and not in a misleading or distorting context. No derivative works that alter meaning and no commercial use are permitted without prior written consent. Use of these materials to justify coercive systems, secret authority or violations of human sovereignty is expressly prohibited. Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts