Use Of Deadly Force - by harry blazer - harry’s Substack harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Use Of Deadly Force Boundaries harry blazer Jan 08, 2026 1 2 Share The use of deadly force in every state I know of is limited to preventing imminent serious harm or death to oneself or another. For law enforcement, this applies as well. And since, as a matter of course, law enforcement officers have both training and non-lethal tools at their disposal to disable or force compliance without the use of deadly force, they have an additional burden of restraint. The shooting of the lady in Minneapolis was punishment, not self-defense. Yes, perhaps, if the officer had not moved out of the way once she started to drive off, he would have been seriously injured. But the fact remains he was able to. And if the lady’s intention was truly to run over the officer vs force him to move, she could have done so. But she steered to the right from the start in a manner consistent with escape rather than an attempt to strike the officer. Once the officer had successfully removed himself from the vehicle’s path, the imminent threat to his life had ended. If, in a court of law, it could be proved that the lady intentionally targeted the officer with her vehicle, then that is a felony. Law enforcement officers can use deadly force to stop an escaping felon if they have a reasonable expectation that doing so will prevent serious injury or death to another. In this situation, that assessment would be hard to justify. The fact is, she could have been pursued and arrested instead of killed in a manner that functioned as summary punishment rather than lawful force. Law enforcement officers are restricted from being prosecutor, judge and jury. We just witnessed an abuse of power and extremely poor judgment, which needs to have consequences that match the damage done. 1 2 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Medical Truth Podcast Jan 8 Edited If Law enforcement is in front of your car and asking you to stop, you Stop, you don't keep moving forward! You can injure or kill someone with a vehicle just as easily as you can with a gun! If she had stopped it would have been a much different outcome! She was asked to stop for a reason! The correct thing for her to do is put the vehicle in park and place her hands on the steering wheel or outside of the vehicle until further instructed! Reply Share 1 reply by harry blazer 1 more comment... Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts