How Our Relationship With Time Correlates With Our Financial Net Worth harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in How Our Relationship With Time Correlates With Our Financial Net Worth Inspired By The Warming Center in Kalispell MT. harry blazer Oct 29, 2025 3 Share I believe there is a strong correlation between how much financial net worth a person has and the time frame in which they operate. People with real money often form Foundations. It’s a good tax shelter but perhaps even more importantly it extends one’s aspirations, accomplishments, vision, influence, name and hopes beyond one’s lifetime. The foundation will carry on your work after your death. And depending on how well it is endowed, perhaps a long time after your death. Centuries. So people with real money think in terms of centuries. This is the domain of billionaires (or equivalent in today’s money) and magnates. People with still lots of money think in terms of generations. Grand kids and great grand kids. They often set up Trusts and their money feeds generations. These people think in terms of multiple generations spanning multiple decades. This is the domain of folks worth $100’s of millions. People who are well off and have considerable assets think at least in terms of their kids and their kid’s kids. Perhaps a generation beyond that even. They often set up Trusts also and often have large insurance policies - to fund education, etc. These people think in terms of multi-decades. This is the domain of folks worth $10’s of millions. People who are considerably better off than average but not exceptionally wealthy think about their kids being OK - and sometimes their grand kids. They leave enough in their wills or trusts so that their kids have a good head start or a nice safety net. But their kids and their kid’s kids will have to work. This is the domain of folks worth in the high single digit millions. These people think in terms of several decades. People worth a few million at their death can leave some kind of safety net and some material things for their kids - that’s about it. These people think in terms of the next generation. So a decade or so. Everyone else is just trying to get by. And this is the majority. Some might have enough money so they can feel comfortable planning for the next 2 to 3 years with confidence. But most can’t really make a plan that they are sure they can afford for more than a year. Or only 6 months. Or only month to month. And then week to week. There is a place in Kalispell MT, where I live, called The Warming Center. It provides a place of warmth and some food and a hot shower and bed for the homeless and indigent. This place is open from about mid-October through the end of April, from 6PM at night til 10AM in the morning. From evening to mid-morning for the coldest months of the year. So during the day, people need to fend for themselves. The Warming Center receives no funding from the county. It lives off of donations and the efforts of volunteers. There are a few full-time employees. Many are in recovery themselves. The Warming Center can accommodate about 50 people, who are required each day, to come anew at 5:30 PM (1/2 hour before opening and not earlier) to stand in line outside in the cold so they can get back in for the night - first come, first served. Sometimes, people get turned away in the middle of winter, because there is not enough room. And if you have been a regular and someone new comes knocking, you could be forced to forfeit your place in line - and fend for yourself for the night. These are the people who live their lives in terms of hours or a day at most. That is the time horizon in which they operate - day to day at best. There are lot of people in the USA who live day to day. Most of the people that use The Warming Center have experienced Trauma in their lives, are addicts of some sort or are “recovering addicts”. Alcohol and Meth are most often the drugs of choice. Many have mental illness of varying severity. Most are in poor physical health. The citizens of Flathead County are voting on November 4th for a bond issue for a new jail. The old jail is overcrowded - mostly with indigent and addicts with varying degrees of mental illness. The bond issue is for $105 Million. I guess those who want the new jail haven’t figured out that if they spent about 10% of that money on a facility that could house, care for and help restore the indigent, addicted and mentally ill, that the existing jail would not be overcrowded and they wouldn’t need a new, bigger jail - that houses indigents, addicts and folks with mental illness - because there is no place else for these folks to go - and find warmth, food and care. Oh and by the way, many of those standing in line last night got letters telling them that they would not be receiving any food stamps for the month of November because of the government shutdown. Gee, maybe we could have used those $100’s of billions sent to Ukraine for MAGA (to make america great again) - and most recently the $40 billion in Aid to Argentina for which the government and private sector are being tapped. So it’s not about the money per se ($37 Trillion deficit). It’s about priorities. I guess not trying to solve the challenges for people in need in this country is good for business. 3 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts