The Gospel of Privilege: How Wealth Becomes Destiny harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in The Gospel of Privilege: How Wealth Becomes Destiny Preface to Caitlin Johnstone’s “Bezos and the Oligarchic Imagination” harry blazer Oct 25, 2025 Share There is no right—divine, natural or otherwise—for those with money, and the power and influence that money brings, to decide your future, our future, or the future of this planet. Yet it is a privilege that those with vast wealth assume they possess, and one they act upon with habitual confidence. Those oligarchic tendencies are most often facilitated by individuals of lesser means but considerable power—for example legislators, regulators, judges and bureaucrats—who, enthralled by or having chosen to be influenced by such wealth, shape law and regulation in ways that reinforce those tendencies. The tax structures that create 501(c)(3) entities and private foundations come immediately to mind: mechanisms ostensibly designed to encourage charity, but often functioning as vehicles of social engineering and influence. Most of the super-wealthy appear to regard their position as a kind of divine appointment—a “God-given” opportunity, or even a sacred responsibility, to shape the world in their image. Otherwise, why would “God” have made them so wealthy and powerful, “in His image”? Or perhaps or in addition, many simply come to believe that they know best. And when the earthly stage no longer suffices for the assertion of dominion, the imagination of power naturally turns upward. Wealth seeks new playgrounds, and the ultimate playground is the universe itself . Elon Musk looks toward Mars and concludes, “We must build a civilization there, so humanity can survive if catastrophe befalls the Earth.” Jeff Bezos offers a different cosmology: “We must build giant structures in space where most of humanity can live, so that this planet—our garden—may remain pristine for those privileged enough to enjoy it.” It is in this context that I share Caitlin Johnstone’s commentary on Bezos’ vision for you and me: a vivid example of how acute arrogance, bred by narcissism and enabled by privilege , converges in the intent to imagine a new world order in one’s own image. It is within this broader pattern - where privilege, imagination and control merge into a single cosmology - that Caitlin Johnstone’s commentary reads less as critique and more as prophecy. video version: CAITLIN JOHNSTONE ON BEZOS Transcript: While I was working on this painting of US oligarch Jeff Bezos I kept thinking about a speech he gave in 2019 where he laid out his nightmarish vision for the future of the human species. Bezos described a future where the overwhelming majority of humans are shipped off to space to live their lives inside “O’Neill colonies” - giant cylinders which rotate to simulate Earth’s gravity. Only a privileged few would get to remain on humanity’s home world, where the ecosystem would be able to repair and thrive now that it’s not being overburdened by more humans than it can handle. One doesn’t have to stretch the imagination to guess which side of the equation Bezos envisions himself and his family winding up on in this scenario. As I was painting I kept thinking about how horrific it would be if Bezos’ plan for humanity was ever put into place, because you know hardly anyone would leave this planet voluntarily. Billions of people would be forced onto space ships bound for these giant spinning space stations, their hearts breaking at the unimaginable loss of their indigenous home world. It would be like a planet-wide Nakba. A Trail of Tears for our entire species. The freaks who rule our world do not have a healthy vision for humanity’s future. Their best ideas are a normal person’s worst nightmare. Jeff Bezos envisions ecocidal capitalism being allowed to tick along completely unrestricted and unhindered, with humanity rescuing itself from disaster at the last minute by shipping most of itself off planet to live inside giant Amazon space dildos. That’s his best and brightest plan. Our rulers are not good people. They are not wise. They are not compassionate. They aren’t even particularly intelligent. They just happen to be good at winning the capitalism game by moving the circumstances of our society around in such a way that the numbers in their bank accounts grow very large. This is not a healthy way for us to live. We cannot keep doing this. Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts