Some Commentary From Tucker Carlson Of Interest harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Some Commentary From Tucker Carlson Of Interest During His Most Recent Interview with Alex Jones harry blazer Oct 14, 2025 Share Tucker [01:44:10] …I know that a lot of the people developing AI are really, really bad, really, bad, like the worst. And what do I mean by bad specifically? They think they’re God. And that that’s the core lie. It’s not like, how many people have you killed? If you think you’re God, you will kill people. And the more power you have, the more you will kill it’s just by its nature bad. And there’s, so it means no restraint, no perspective, no humility, man, that’s a recipe for genocide always. Alex Jones [01:44:38] I know we want to hit my own personal issues and a few other things. And I appreciate the time Tucker, but big picture. Let’s just be completely honest about Trump. It’s a blessing to have him in office. We’re nine months in the Democrats are destroying themselves. Lowest approval rating ever. Lowest fundraising ever. It’s really up to us to lose this, but we are starting to see some indictments of Comey and Lisa Chambers a lot more coming. The Democrats are now pledging, you know, resistance and violence. And what’s the quote? Energetic uprisings or forceful uprising, sorry, forceful uprising, Chuck Schumer, how do you see this unfolding and what can the general public do to try to save the country in a non-violent way? Because I mean, I just think Trump rhetorically needs to be out front explaining to people how dangerous things are and the crossroads. Instead of just saying, oh, liberals are dumb, they don’t know what they’re doing. No, the leftist globalists have a plan all over the world. They know what their deliberately doing. Tucker [01:45:36] I think, I mean, a lot of things are important. Prayer is the most important, keeping the people you love close, keeping your personal relationships strong, keeping your person life virtuous. I do think that’s really important. I think you become, having led a very non-virtuous life myself, I’m not judging anybody, I just know from experience that the less virtuous your personal life, the weaker you are, it makes you weak. That’s the reason why I quit drinking, it made me weak. Et cetera, so those are all super important. But from a governance perspective, the government, the people who are elected to run the government need to make sure that the instruments of government are loyal to the constitution and under control. And that’s the concern that I have, is that especially older conservatives, whatever that is, Republicans, whatever that, but non-leftists are living with outdated understandings of the military and the police. And, you know, there are a lot of great people in the military. I know a lot them and there are lot of great cops. We were just with one of them a second ago, but there are also a lot of people with guns in official capacities who are really, really dangerous and you need to make sure those people are under control. And by under control, I don’t mean loyal to Donald Trump, the man. I mean, loyal to the constitution. Absolutely. Alex Jones [01:46:54] A whole bunch of people are including sheriff’s deputies earlier today. And you’re like, well, of course, the leadership of the Pentagon are the worst globalists. And they’re like what, really? Our military is not the best? Like Trump admitted eight years ago, he was lied to. The leadership has been groomed, put to these globalist schools, brainwashed. They’re awful, they’re awful. They’re the worst. And Trump finally knows that. So going into this attempt at civil war, the enlisted are great people on average the best, but people really have this vision of military that’s delusional. Tucker [01:47:21] A lot of them are sociology professors with nuclear weapons. I mean, they’re scary. And I know that just from living in DC. I wouldn’t know that if I hadn’t spent my life in Washington. The Pentagon’s right there. The neighborhood I grew up in in Georgetown was, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs lived one house over from me. There was always circulating through, because they all circulate through DC. So I would go to dinners or duck hunts or whatever. You’re with these people and you’re like, wait, you’re stupid, and totally incapable of creative or independent thought. A lefty big time and like self-hating white guys and like crypto gay and like, oh, like they’re sociology professors. A lot of them. I’ve met a lot of him a lot. Why do you think DEI swept through the military? Cause the flag officers wanted it. And why did they want it? Because they hate themselves because they all got, you know, master’s degrees at Fletcher or whatever at some, you know, they all. Indoctrinated by her education is, as you explained at the outset. So like, man, you have to make sure those people. Are loyal to the constitution and you need to go through systematically by the way you think trump Alex Jones [01:48:25] Finally knows that he thought the brass for these badass John Wayne guys are literally the enemy Tucker [01:48:30] Apparently, everyone says that the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs is like a really good, a good solid. Raising Cain. American. That’s correct. Dan Cain is a, he’s a great guy. So I mean, I think there are a lot of great people, caveat. There’s still a few left that. Yeah, there may be many left, but there are many bad. Many bad, many bad, and the left used the COVID vaccine to weed out the men, guys with testosterone and self-respect who were like, I’m not doing that. I’m not gonna poison myself. And so they laugh. And that was the point of the COVID facts was to get decent, to purge the men. So it’s all like betas and women who can be controlled and are sort of eager to worship false gods. And you have those people with guns. I don’t know. It’s really scary what just happened under Biden. And has it been corrected? I, you know, I don’t Alex Jones [01:49:19] of males, back when Obama wanted to attack Syria and the Russians, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, then he goes, that’s World War Three, full war, they had to back off. So that was the tail end. Now you have like weird guys that say they’re women with bald heads stealing women’s gowns at the airport over the nuclear stockpile and they’re all, and like Sean Penn’s on TV saying, why not have a nuclear war? What’s wrong with that? It’s like they had, the real warriors know, no, you can’t do that. But now you’ve got a collection, like you said, of Sociology and anthropology professors that are completely bonkers and I aren’t making the connection. This is real like the Russians aren’t playing around Tucker [01:49:57] and it’s self-hating men and bloodthirsty women… Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts