TYLENOL - More Bullshit It Seems - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in TYLENOL - More Bullshit It Seems Thanks to Dr. Paul Alexander harry blazer Oct 09, 2025 1 Share Forwarded this email? Subscribe here for more BOOM! McCullough is now calling it as it is, that the Tylenol-autism ‘cause’ White House news conference where RFK Jr., moron Makary, Chip-man Oz etc. made a fool of POTUS Trump, had him uttering junk junk garbage science that had no basis, McCullough is now schooling them as I had written as to distorting, confounding variables in models whereby any association between Tylenol-autism falls away DR. PAUL ALEXANDER OCT 9 READ IN APP What does all mean? It means RFK Jr. and Makary should be fired for they stood there talking ‘smoking gun’ bullshit having our great POTUS utter that nonsense of a Tylenol-autism link knowing there was no science to back that up, yet it was all a concocted news bite to confuse you the public and shift your gaze away from the vaccines that do harm and specially the deadly mRNA vaccine, and the criminals linked to mRNA vaccine like Malone, Bourla, Bancel, Sahin, Pfizer, Moncef, Moderna, BioNTech, Weissman, Kariko et al. It means we have no science, NONE today, none, showing any credible link between Tylenol use and autism…I said autism… see Table 2 in Alexander News Network (ANN): Trump’s War 2.0 for America is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. let me explain table 2 in the adjusted analysis McCullough refers to below…I can build any mathematical algorithm model and put any sort of predictor variables into it and make the outcome variable be predicative of anything I want it to. I can over-fit the model and I can make the model fit a line to noise, to error, to any and everything and have it explain all sorts of variance in the Y or outcome variable. Yet when I statistically ‘ADJUST’ or put another way, when I ‘account’ for mathematically, or ‘tease’ out’ or ‘parcel’ out’ or extract or explain the role of the contributing variables that really are confusing confounding variables, I can actually end up with model variance that explains most in the outcome variable and is the best fitting line for the data. The line I end up with fits the data best and MINIMIZES the error. McCullough is explaining table 2 correctly in that when the data is adjusted and all known confounders (distorting variables that could have an explanatory relationship with the Y outcome variable is accounted for or teased out from making any contribution) are removed from the analysis, then the model is non-significant and there is NO link between Tylenol and autism. Do you hear that RFK Jr. and blockhead Mr. ‘smoking gun’ Makary and dufus Bhattacharya? I am at a loss as to what to say, I cannot complement you people. You embarrass us, us who understand data and science and methods and statistics etc. McCullough is trying not to call you morons but I am. You hurt POTUS Trump and I think unforgiveable. He must fire you all. You allowed POTUS Trump to stand there and utter bullshit on Tylenol-autism, you knew the science was NOT there, but you set Trump up….like what they did to him Term one with the COVID lockdown and vaccine Task Force garbage he stated on advisement from Hahn, Fauci, Birx, Redfield etc. Once again Trump is misled by misfits who simply want camera, money, fame and are hurting his credibility. McCullough stated ‘Based on this comprehensive analysis a reasonable conclusion is that acetaminophen alone taken during pregnancy is not a cause of autism that develops years later in an afflicted child.” Again, do not come to this stack to cup stones or wash balls or lather them. None of that here. This is serious shit now for you people in our health agencies are a clown car. Idiots. Well, he McCullough did not want to say it, but I will…you people who cited that weak confounded review, studies that were poorly done, recall studies, confounded, yet you called it the ‘smoking gun’ knowing it was pure crap…you are collectively are academically sloppy, specious, non-sensical, intellectually lazy, duplicitous and are conning the American people with pseudoscience. What you said that day was junk, and you know it. And all you needed was to refer to just this study McCullough reminded you of. Blockheads. I feel sorry for POTUS Trump for again he seeks good trustworthy scientific counsel and is getting destroyed, his credibility, again. Distorted confounded association link between Tylenol and autism that the administration Makary et al. said existed & McCullough is 100% on point: Read McCullough here: “Confounded Association Between Prenatal Tylenol and Childhood Neuropsychiatric Disorders”; Large, Conclusive Swedish Study Finds Relationship, Demonstrates Lack of Independence; McCullough: “We agree with least 7 medical societies have issued statements affirming that acetaminophen is safe for use during pregnancy (when taken as directed or judiciously) and is not a cause of autism in children.” McCullough writes: Based on this comprehensive analysis a reasonable conclusion is that acetaminophen alone taken during pregnancy is not a cause of autism that develops years later in an afflicted child.” ‘So it is true in the unadjusted analysis that women who took acetaminophen did have higher rates of affected children, but when known confounders were included in the multivariate analysis, which is the main tool used when randomization was not possible, there was no association.’ The association does not exist. Confounded Association Between Prenatal Tylenol and Childhood Neuropsychiatric Disorders By Peter A. McCullough, MD, MPH Before the recent HHS press briefing on autism, there was little or no discussion on mainstream, social, or Substack media on acetaminophen use during pregnancy. Many did not know Tylenol is one of many drugs implicated. An AI search found at least thirty drugs used during pregnancy “linked” to neuropsychiatric problems later on in the child. There are numerous prenatal drugs and substances that have been associated with increased risk of childhood neuropsychiatric or neurodevelopmental disorders (such as autism spectrum disorder, ADHD, intellectual disability, anxiety, depression, behavioral problems, or cognitive deficits) in the scientific literature. Based on a synthesis of peer-reviewed sources (including systematic reviews, cohort studies, and meta-analyses from PubMed, JAMA, BMJ, and other databases), at least 30 specific drugs have been associated with these risks to varying degrees. Citations are rendered inline where direct sources are available. Anticonvulsants/Antiseizure Medications (5+ drugs) These are commonly linked to neurodevelopmental risks, especially autism and intellectual disability, due to interference with brain development. Valproic acid/valproate : Strongly associated with ASD (up to 7-fold increased risk), lower IQ, and behavioral disorders. jamanetwork.com +3 Carbamazepine : Neural tube defects and potential cognitive delays. womensmentalhealth.org Phenytoin : Linked to developmental delays and cognitive deficits (though evidence is weaker than for valproate). pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov Topiramate: Increased risk of ASD and intellectual disability. med.stanford.edu Lamotrigine : Mixed evidence; some studies show weak links to oral clefts or learning difficulties, but often considered lower-risk. aafp.org +1 Antidepressants (15+ drugs) Prenatal exposure, especially in the first trimester, has been linked to ASD, ADHD, altered brain development, and behavioral issues, though evidence is conflicting and often tied to underlying maternal depression. SSRIs (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors) as a class: Increased ASD risk (up to 2-fold) and altered pain response or stress axis function. womensmentalhealth.org Fluoxetine: Autism-like behaviors, lifelong behavioral abnormalities, altered serotonin function. Paroxetine: Attention problems, aggression, hyperactivity. Sertraline: Cognitive and behavioral changes. Citalopram: Neonatal distress with potential long-term behavioral effects. Escitalopram: Musculoskeletal defects and psychomotor delays. TCAs (tricyclic antidepressants) as a class: Neonatal syndrome, long-term behavioral changes (e.g., altered social interaction, cognition). Amitriptyline: Developmental delays, central nervous system effects. Clomipramine: Autism-like responses, reduced anxiety in models. Desipramine: Altered behavioral responsiveness. Imipramine: Behavioral changes, altered brain histology. Nortriptyline: Decreased body weight and potential developmental effects (animal models). Trimipramine: Major abnormalities (animal models). SNRIs (serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors): Similar to SSRIs; disrupted behaviors. Venlafaxine: Decreased exploratory/social behaviors. Atypical antidepressants: Anxiety-like behaviors. Bupropion: Increased anxiety, stress vulnerability, substance sensitivity. Trazodone: Decreased exploratory/social behaviors. MAOIs (monoamine oxidase inhibitors): Limited data, but linked to ASD. Selegiline: Increased ASD risk. Antipsychotics (7+ drugs) Associated with neurodevelopmental disorders and learning difficulties, though evidence is emerging and often for neonatal withdrawal rather than long-term effects. Typical antipsychotics as a class: Potential congenital malformations. Haloperidol: Teratogenic risks low, but neonatal effects. Perphenazine: Malformations (low-potency agents). Trifluoperazine: Similar to above. Atypical antipsychotics as a class: Risk of specific neurodevelopmental disorders; neonatal extrapyramidal signs or withdrawal. sciencedirect.com Olanzapine: No major malformations, but neonatal complications. Risperidone: Similar neonatal risks. Quetiapine: Obstetrical/neonatal complications. Clozapine: Limited data; potential malformations. Aripiprazole : Limited data. Opioids (4+ drugs)Linked to lower cognitive/motor skills, ADHD, and behavioral disorders, though not always substantial increases. bmj.com +4 Methadone: Lower mental development, neurodev impairment. Morphine: Altered stress responses, anxiety-like behaviors. Oxycodone: Similar to morphine; long-term morbidity. Buprenorphine: Neonatal withdrawal, behavioral changes. Other Medications (3+ drugs) Acetaminophen : Increased risk of NDDs (e.g., autism, ADHD) and other neuropsychiatric disorders. ehjournal.biomedcentral.com +1 Benzodiazepines (class): Possible increased risk of learning/neuropsychiatric disorders, cleft lip/palate (weak long-term data). womensmentalhealth.org Synthetic glucocorticoids (e.g., dexamethasone, betamethasone ): Attention problems, executive dysfunction, cortical thinning. pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov As an epidemiologist and a long-standing journal editor, I have become skilled at determining and examining the best and most conclusive sources of evidence among many publications on a topic. The reported link between prenatal acetaminophen use and the development of neuropsychiatric disorders several years later in the child is best evaluated by Ahlqvist et al, JAMA 2024 . Ahlqvist VH, Sjöqvist H, Dalman C, Karlsson H, Stephansson O, Johansson S, Magnusson C, Gardner RM, Lee BK. Acetaminophen Use During Pregnancy and Children’s Risk of Autism, ADHD, and Intellectual Disability. JAMA. 2024 Apr 9;331(14):1205-1214. doi: 10.1001/jama.2024.3172. PMID: 38592388; PMCID: PMC11004836. Ahlqvist et al published an analysis from Sweden from a population-based sample of 2 480 797 children born in 1995 to 2019, with follow-up through December 31, 2021. In total, 185 909 children (7.49%) were exposed to acetaminophen during pregnancy. Crude absolute risks at 10 years of age for those not exposed vs those exposed to acetaminophen were 1.33% vs 1.53% for autism, 2.46% vs 2.87% for ADHD, and 0.70% vs 0.82% for intellectual disability. In models without sibling control, ever-use vs no use of acetaminophen during pregnancy was associated with marginally increased risk of autism (hazard ratio [HR], 1.05 [95% CI, 1.02-1.08]; risk difference [RD] at 10 years of age, 0.09% [95% CI, -0.01% to 0.20%]), ADHD (HR, 1.07 [95% CI, 1.05-1.10]; RD, 0.21% [95% CI, 0.08%-0.34%]), and intellectual disability (HR, 1.05 [95% CI, 1.00-1.10]; RD, 0.04% [95% CI, -0.04% to 0.12%]). To address unobserved confounding, matched full sibling pairs were also analyzed. Sibling control analyses found no evidence that acetaminophen use during pregnancy was associated with autism (HR, 0.98 [95% CI, 0.93-1.04]; RD, 0.02% [95% CI, -0.14% to 0.18%]), ADHD (HR, 0.98 [95% CI, 0.94-1.02]; RD, -0.02% [95% CI, -0.21% to 0.15%]), or intellectual disability (HR, 1.01 [95% CI, 0.92-1.10]; RD, 0% [95% CI, -0.10% to 0.13%]). Similarly, there was no evidence of a dose-response pattern in sibling control analyses. For example, for autism, compared with no use of acetaminophen, persons with low (&lt;25th percentile), medium (25th-75th percentile), and high (>75th percentile) mean daily acetaminophen use had HRs of 0.85, 0.96, and 0.88, respectively. So it is true in the unadjusted analysis that women who took acetaminophen did have higher rates of affected children, but when known confounders were included in the multivariate analysis, which is the main tool used when randomization was not possible, there was no association. Ahlqvist VH, Sjöqvist H, Dalman C, Karlsson H, Stephansson O, Johansson S, Magnusson C, Gardner RM, Lee BK. Acetaminophen Use During Pregnancy and Children’s Risk of Autism, ADHD, and Intellectual Disability. JAMA. 2024 Apr 9;331(14):1205-1214. doi: 10.1001/jama.2024.3172. PMID: 38592388; PMCID: PMC11004836. The key to understanding Ahlqvist as a valid source of evidence is Table 2 depicting the multivariate analysis controlling for other possible determinants of neuropsychiatric disorders: age of parents, early delivery, birthing parent’s autism, parental ADHD, intellectual disability, history of psychiatric conditions, and parent’s use of psycholeptic medications, antidepressants, and anti-epileptic medication. Note that acetaminophen at medium and higher doses (means it was taken on most days during nine months) as determined by structured nurse-midwife assessment had modest &lt;20% excess risk that remained statistically significant for autism, ADHD, and intellectual disability. None of this was confirmed by examining siblings born to the same parents where one was exposed to acetaminophen and the other was not. A common scenario listed in the supplemental materials where a woman took acetaminophen during one pregnancy and not in another was migraine headaches. At the McCullough Foundation we have developed a track record of being a true north on contemporary issues and we are not afraid to agree with organizations for which on other issues we may have disagreed. We agree with least 7 medical societies have issued statements affirming that acetaminophen is safe for use during pregnancy (when taken as directed or judiciously) and is not a cause of autism in children. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG): Affirms that “acetaminophen remains the safest first-line analgesic and antipyretic in pregnancy” and “the current weight of evidence does not support a causal link between prenatal acetaminophen use and neurodevelopmental disorders.” acog.org +1 Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM): States that “acetaminophen use during pregnancy has not been shown to cause or increase the risk of autism” and recommends it as an “appropriate medication” for pain and fever, noting untreated conditions carry significant risks. smfm.org +2 American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP): Supports that “the occasional use of acetaminophen as directed for fever and pain relief during pregnancy is safe” and “studies do not point to a causal link between the use of acetaminophen and autism in children or in pregnancy.” aap.org +1 National Medical Association (NMA): Describes claims of a link as “misleading” and affirms that “acetaminophen has long been used safely in pregnancy, including for the treatment of high fevers.” nmanet.org International and Non-US Societies International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO): Recognizes paracetamol (acetaminophen) as “safe during pregnancy when clinically indicated” and states that evidence “does not support a causal association” with autism. figo.org Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG, UK): Recommends paracetamol as the “first-line analgesic during pregnancy,” aligning with the consensus that it is safe and not causally linked to neurodevelopmental disorders. figo.org Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada (SOGC): Recommends acetaminophen as a “first-line” option and states it “remains a safe and appropriate option for managing fever and pain during pregnancy when used at the lowest effective dose.” sogc.org +1 Inclusion, there is a bundle of prenatal exposures in which acetaminophen is included that do elevate the risk for a child developing a neuropsychiatric disorder. Based on this comprehensive analysis a reasonable conclusion is that acetaminophen alone taken during pregnancy is not a cause of autism that develops years later in an afflicted child. Please subscribe to FOCAL POINTS as a paying ($5 monthly) or founder member so we can continue to bring you the truth. Peter A. McCullough, MD, MPH FOCAL POINTS has partnered with Patriot Mobile to defend your medical freedom. Join Patriot Mobile today! Ahlqvist VH, Sjöqvist H, Dalman C, Karlsson H, Stephansson O, Johansson S, Magnusson C, Gardner RM, Lee BK. Acetaminophen Use During Pregnancy and Children’s Risk of Autism, ADHD, and Intellectual Disability. JAMA. 2024 Apr 9;331(14):1205-1214. doi: 10.1001/jama.2024.3172. PMID: 38592388; PMCID: PMC11004836. ’ ___ You must not wait for another catastrophic crisis (at times manufactured but we are prevented from making our own basic personal decisions or accessing needed drugs and response tools) to catch you off-guard. We must take charge and be prepared today so that we can enjoy peace of mind tomorrow. Enter the Wellness Company as a solution and a willing participant in the health care conversation. The Wellness Company, launched in 2022, offers health care, prescriptions, and supplements, all backed by research The Wellness Company isn’t chasing profits — it’s trying to help people recover. While the government continues pushing vaccines, The Wellness Company is focusing on real solutions. From telemedicine, prescriptions, memberships, and supplements, TWC is leading America with alternative choices to the traditional health care model. Please consider support of a good PATRIOT company (in this PATRIOT economy) Drs. McCullough, Risch, Thorp, myself support (they are our sponsors), The Wellness Company ; see the emergency preparation kit (key component being antibiotics you were denied by doctors, pharmacists, governments during the fraud COVID), first aid kit , travel emergency kit , contagion control kit etc. Please consider the SPIKE SUPPORT (spike protein DETOX dissolving spike from mRNA vaccine, this is critical to remove spike form the mRNA vaccine/and DNA viral vector) formula with NATTOKINASE as well as the triple formula ( SPIKE SUPPORT , BROMELAIN, CIRCUMIN ) If you wish to give a donation to help me, you can at: Zelle: sr7283@gmail.com Or Ko-Fi Ko-fi.com/drpauleliasalexander Or to my address at: 150 South 8th Street Unit 170 Lewiston, New York 14092 Alternatively, please consider going from an UNPAID subscriber or follower to a PAID at $5 per month or $30 per year. This can provide me help. If this is not possible at this time, this is ok, please remain a subscriber for FREE and there is no difference between FREE and PAID. No restrictions. Alexander News Network (ANN): Trump’s War 2.0 for America is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribed Invite your friends and earn rewards If you enjoy Alexander News Network (ANN): Trump’s War 2.0 for America, share it with your friends and earn rewards when they subscribe. Invite Friends SHARE LIKE COMMENT RESTACK © 2025 Paul 150 South 8th Street, Unit 170, Lewiston, NY 14092 1 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts