Does Hungary Have The Only Sane Leadership in Europe harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Does Hungary Have The Only Sane Leadership in Europe Commentary By Tyler Durden of ZeroHedge harry blazer Oct 04, 2025 Share Hungary’s Orban From Copenhagen Summit: “The EU Has Decided To Go To War” by Tyler Durden Friday, Oct 03, 2025 - 02:15 AM Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is newly warning that EU leaders are preparing for war with Russia , soon after he participated in the European Political Community meeting in Copenhagen. He has denounced this as “horrifying” that “the EU has decided to go to war” and that at Wednesday’s informal EU summit, leaders pushed a war strategy on how to defeat the Russians. Getty Images This reportedly features plans for a ‘drone shield’ to counter Russian incursions into member states’ airspaces, as well as long-planned efforts to confiscate seized Russian assets held in Europe. Conformity is being demanded of all member states. “ The pressure is great . So I will suggest to the Fidesz presidency that we start a signature campaign in Hungary against the EU’s war plans. Because we need all our strength to stay out of this war ,” Orbán said. He summarized the situation on X in an English-language post : “Copenhagen, day two. The situation is serious. Outright pro-war proposals are on the table . They want to hand over EU funds to Ukraine. They are trying to accelerate Ukraine’s accession with all kinds of legal tricks . They want to finance arms deliveries. I will stand firmly by the Hungarian position.” The Hungarian prime minister additionally argued that full EU membership for Ukraine is a terrible and dangerous idea as it means “the war would enter the European Union” . Instead, he suggested an arrangement which stops short at a strategic partnership as a “better idea”. Further in a fresh interview Orban highlighted that Europe is signing on to a climate of “endless war”... Brussels has chosen a strategy of wearing Russia down through endless war. This means pouring billions into Ukraine, sacrificing Europe’s economy, and sending hundreds of thousands to die at the front. ❌ Hungary rejects this. Europe must negotiate for peace, not pursue endless… pic.twitter.com/iA5LmpuDLI — Orbán Viktor (@PM_ViktorOrban) October 2, 2025 Orban’s foreign minister, Péter Szijjártó, also sounded off, saying on X that “Brussels is preparing for war, and they want Europeans, including Hungarians, to pay the price. As part of this war preparation, the EU Commission has drafted a 7-year budget that is more about Ukraine than about the European Union.” “ This is practically a Ukraine budget ,” he then emphasized. “Instead of tackling Europe’s real challenges, such as restoring competitiveness, ensuring energy security, and rebuilding economic growth, they focus on financing the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian state.” More signs of hawkish voices dominating the discussion... The man whose role in making this war happen needs to be properly investigated wants to depopulate a Russian-occupied Ukranian region. That irrational fixation on Crimea has been a feature of British politics lately - can’t think of any other reasons but phantom pains of losing… https://t.co/jMPc3HkQaK — Leonid Ragozin (@leonidragozin) October 2, 2025 Alternately, stepping back in time a bit... Throwback: Even Barack Obama acknowledged the pro-Russian stance of Crimea’s population The British political class still believes in dangerous delusions over Crimea, including that somehow attempts to make Crimea ‘uninhabitable’ would not start World War 3. https://t.co/btwy4fM5E8 pic.twitter.com/P5Ctwp3hu1 — Afshin Rattansi (@afshinrattansi) October 1, 2025 Meanwhile, European Council President Antonio Costa described at a press briefing, “Leaders broadly supported initial priority flagship projects that will strengthen Europe’s security, including the European drone wall and the Eastern Flank Watch.” A lot of noise has been made over last month’s alleged several incursions of Russian aircraft, mostly drones, in European airspace. Want to know more? Danish PM Alleges Russian ‘Hybrid’ Drone War ‘Only The Beginning’ Putin: ‘All NATO Countries Are Fighting Us’ While EU Leaders ‘Whip Up Hysteria’ NATO Has Already ‘Declared Real War’ On Russia Through Ukraine, Lavrov Says NEVER MISS THE NEWS THAT MATTERS MOST ZEROHEDGE DIRECTLY TO YOUR INBOX Receive a daily recap featuring a curated list of must-read stories. Copyright ©2009-2025 ZeroHedge.com/ABC Media, LTD Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts