A Convergence of AI, Surveillance and Digital Money - To Rob You Of Your Sovereignty harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in A Convergence of AI, Surveillance and Digital Money - To Rob You Of Your Sovereignty harry blazer Sep 28, 2025 Share “[With] digital ID & programmable money...you’re talking about complete control...[&]...we are in a political war between the mega-rich & everybody else. And the question [for] the mega-rich [is] how are you going to control the many when you are few?” This clip of Fitts, a former Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, investment banker, and founder of the Solari Report ( @solari_the ), is taken from an interview with Holistic Hilda posted to YouTube on September 26, 2025. ----------------Partial transcription of clip--------------- “My chief concern, if you look at what AI is good at, AI is very good at simulating anything that can be expressed mathematically. And of course, the thing we all know can be expressed mathematically are our, financial transactions. And the reality is, if I can track you closely where you’re going and what you’re doing, and I can get you on programmable money which can be turned on and off, then I can start to use AI and surveillance systems and algorithms to basically manage and control your behavior. “If I want you living in a 15 minute city, your money won’t work beyond the 15 minutes unless you do what I say. We have a wonderful woman who runs our team Cash, and she says, what are you going to do when they show up and say either you transgender your children or we’re going to turn off your money? “So what we’re talking about doing is building a system that will allow you to be surveillance and tracked and turn your money on and off, or incentivize you or penalize you in a variety of ways with your money that can be integrated with your behavior. “So once you add programmable, all this stuff looks great. And there are many wonderful applications in theory, but when you integrate it with a digital ID and programmable money, then you’re talking about complete control. And let me tell you why that’s a problem. If you look around the world today, we are watching many different divide and conquer tactics used to cover up the real problem. “Right now we are in a political war between the mega rich and everybody else. And, the question is, if you’re the mega rich, how are you going to control the many when you are few? The way you’re going to do it was with programmable money. But programmable money doesn’t click in and work well unless you’ve got everybody on the grid. You need to be able to track them, you need to be able to watch their behavior, you need to be able to influence their behavior. “And then you’ve got complete control. And that is not just wearables, that is not just an Internet of bodies. That is a coup d’ Etat. That is the end of human liberty in the West.” Original Video: Original VIdeo Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts