Commentary On The Kirk Killing From Joel Skousen - World Affairs Brief harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Commentary On The Kirk Killing From Joel Skousen - World Affairs Brief https://worldaffairsbrief.com/ harry blazer Sep 27, 2025 Share THE CHARLIE KIRK SHOOTING DOESN’T ADD UP The more we learn from video evidence of the shooting, the more facts come to light that contradict the story that Kirk was shot from the front by a powerful rifle shot. Tyler Robinson on the roof of the Losee Center at UVU was only a few degrees off of shooting Charlie Kirk directly to his front. His powerful 30.06 bullet would have gone completely through Kirk’s neck and splattered the white backdrop behind him and possibly hit one of the many people standing behind him. But there was no evidence of an exit wound to the rear nor back splatter on the backdrop. One video put out by an ex-military type claims that the only way a high velocity bullet would not have exited to the rear was if it hit the top edge of a metal bullet proof shield under Kirk’s T-shirt which would have deformed and directed the projectile upward into his skull. A second video commentary, with now over 6 million views, predominates the discussion now and claims that Kirk was shot from high and to Kirk’s right, and that the visible wound to the front of the neck was actually the exit wound. A third video, which I dismissed last week from Jeff Rense, suspects that a man at the front of the crowd in a khaki shirt and sunglasses took the shot at close range with a small gun hidden in his right hand. This week I will go through each of these theories in turn and compare them to the facts being put out including what one doctor revealed who treated Kirk afterward at the hospital. Let me take you through the 3 video commentaries. The first that came out earlier than the others was from Paramount Tactical . His explanation is perfectly reasonable and conforms to the official narrative that Tyler Robinson shot Kirk with a 30.06 rifle. But it completely relies on the premise that Charlie Kirk was wearing a ballistic steel plate on his chest to cause the high velocity rifle bullet to ricochet upward after being heavily deformed and that it stayed in the skull. He points out that heavy deformation of the bullet is the only thing that can cause a 180 grain bullet traveling at over 2,000 ft/second to not cause a large exit wound. Videos of Kirk show the upper part of Kirk’s T-shirt on his left hand shoulder lifting up just as he is hit. Another video shows it also blossomed outward in the back on that side of the shoulder. The ricochet theory could explain that if the bullet went through the shirt and then changed direction upward, it would pull the left side of his shirt upward with it. But both Erika Kirk and the Utah County Sheriff have said that Kirk was not wearing any kind of body armor. Soft body armor would not cause a bullet to ricochet and would be fairly visible under a T-shirt. A hard ballistic plate on his chest would be even more visible in outline, and there are videos that show a nipple protrusion. Only hard body armor would be able to deflect a powerful rifle bullet, so I doubt there was a ballistic armor plate and that completely discredits this theory in my mind. The next video commentary to surface by RangeDayBro has now over 6 million views and is the most widely talked about theory. In it he presents the case that the shot came from Kirk’s right side (the audience’s left) and exited the neck in a downward trajectory to the left front of Kirk’s neck. He offers the idea that the blossoming out of the T-shirt on Kirk’s left shoulder is caused by the chain necklace he wore being thrown upward as his body is forced downward by a bullet entering from a higher angle. A red spot on Kirk’s front neck is the only part of him that shows any blood initially. Normally entrance wounds are small, generally no bigger than a pencil width and don’t bleed immediately. If this is an entrance wound on his front neck and it hit an artery that could explain the fairly instantaneous emergence of blood. However, it would have to be an exit wound if Kirk was shot from the high right side. The video-maker explains that the bullet may not have tumbled much in such a short path and exited out through the neck fairly cleanly, as an explanation of why the exit wound isn’t bigger than expected. The author also claims you can see blood splatter coming from the rear side entrance wound. But all that is visible is a fuzzy blur, and even that is very faint. Here’s another video from Valhalla VFT who supports the RangeDayBro video but adds starting at 10:30 mark that the video evidence shows Kirk was wearing an ear piece (to communicate with his team or security) with light colored wire leading down into his T-shirt. The video shows that earpiece flying off, which might also be mistaken for the blurry fuzziness the author claims is blood. Valhalla extrapolates the shooter’s position as being high and to Kirk’s right and slightly behind him, but the buildings and upper walkway is open to the public and affords no concealment for a shooter. Still to Kirk’s right, but a little more in front is the administration building. Without explaining how this affects his previous assumption of a rear angle theory, the commentator shows us a very fuzzy picture of what he claims might be a bush with a shooter behind it on an upper deck of this building. The picture is so grainy, there is no way to tell exactly what is there. In this revised video the same author shows a software enhancement of that same bush and it turns out to only be a potted bush. I brought up Google Earth photos of that area and it turns out to be an elevated balcony not accessible to the student body, with an outdoor table, chairs and a collapsed shade umbrella. There is a stairwell visible, but without public access. In one photo, it is clear that there is a railing on one side and a glass or plexiglass safety barrier on the side facing the grass amphitheater where Kirk was speaking below, which would prohibit a shooter from using that position. That said, I also noticed there is about a 4-6 inch gap between the metal railing and the glass barrier that would give a shooter an unobstructed line of sight at Kirk. But this gap in the railing system is parallel with the building behind Kirk, and would not allow any shot to the right rear of Kirk’s head, as the presenter is claiming, only directly to the side. So, for this hypothetical side shot to exit to Kirk’s left front neck, it would have had to be deflected forward after entering the head above his right ear. Though it’s possible, I think it is doubtful a spinal column bone could do that degree of deflection. But now comes the piece of evidence that goes against all three scenarios thus far, including the frontal shot from Tyler Robinson: Andrew Kolvet , Kirk’s spokesperson at Turning Point USA, tweeted what a surgeon told him when he examined Kirk’s body at Timpanogas Regional Hospital. Keep in mind that this is second hand, because the hospital hasn’t released the name of the surgeon who worked to save Kirk. They aren’t talking to the media. However, the information Kolvet relays is very specific. TPUSA spokesperson Andrew Kolvet revealed as much via social media platform X yesterday (September 20). “I want to address some of the discussion about the lack of an exit wound with Charlie. I’m usually not interested in delving into most of this kind of online chatter, and I apologise this is somewhat graphic, but in this case, the fact that there wasn’t an exit wound is probably another miracle, and I want people to know,” he wrote. Kolvet went on to inform the world: “I just spoke with the surgeon who worked on Charlie in the hospital... He said the bullet ‘absolutely should have gone through, which is very very normal for a high powered, high velocity round. I’ve seen wounds from this caliber many times and they always just go through everything. This would have taken a moose or two down, an elk, etc.’ “But it didn’t go through. Charlie’s body stopped it,” he added. According to Kolvet, the unnamed coroner found the bullet just beneath Kirk’s skin . It’s nice to say this was a miracle that Charlie’s body “stopped it,” but I don’t think that’s what happened, even though I believe God can certainly intervene. But if miracles were present that day, why not have the bullet miss? There was also a camera mounted directly in back of Kirk, which was taken down afterward. Candace Owens, who used to work at Turning Point says she was allowed to view the footage from that camera. On her podcast episode titled “Who Moved The Camera Right Above Charlie’s Head?”, she describes what she saw (or didn’t see): she says the footage from the back “isn’t gory,” and that she saw no blood from that rear angle, nor evidence of an exit wound . In any case, this statement combined with the previous one from Kolvet, if correctly reflecting what the doctor said, answers a host of questions we have been grappling with since last week. For example, where is the bullet, and why is there no autopsy or official medical report that is normally mandatory for any murder by gunshot? Kolvet said the doctor mentions an unnamed coroner finding the bullet just under Kirk’s skin. Either the doctor or Kolvet thinks a coroner arrived to view the body after Kirk died, and probed the wound for the bullet. If they really did find a bullet that might explain why there was no further autopsy, since they had the bullet and no other trauma was visible other than the frontal damage to an artery or the juggler vein in the neck that would have caused Kirk to bleed out. But there is an error in terminology here. Utah does not use a coroner system but rather a statewide Office of the Medical Examiner [OME] led by Dr. Deirdre Amaro, who is based out of Salt Lake City. There is no evidence yet of her going down to Utah County to examine Kirk, and it’s also unlikely that she would perform the actual forensic exams without others trained to help. If she sent a forensic technician to the hospital, which is almost certain, and a bullet was extracted and photos taken, that might explain what there was no further autopsy, allowing the body to be flown out to Arizona the next day in Air Force Two with VP Vance. And, there has to be a forensic medical report on file. I’m still waiting to find out if they intend to release it. If the doctor’s statements are accurate about no exit wound and that the bullet was taken out from just under the skin, it is pretty strong evidence that none of the scenarios about a shooter using a high powered rifle explain what killed Kirk. A 30.06 bullet fired from a rifle just has too much energy not to cause a huge exit wound in a neck from whatever direction, let alone just penetrate only a short distance past the skin. No spine will stop it either, and the doctor doesn’t claim he had to dig deep into the neck to discover the bullet. It’s just not possible to slow down such a round from a rifle at the range of about 150 yards to account for shallow penetration without causing a horrendous drop in the bullet trajectory. Even a skilled sniper would have tremendous difficulty adjusting the powder load to do this without a lot of trial and error—and why would he even try? Leaving the bullet in the body allows it to be traced to his weapon if found. No, the extracted bullet couldn’t be from a 30.06. But finding the bullet in the neck, may explain why police didn’t leave the UVU amphitheater area cordoned off for a search for the bullet, as is normal standard procedure. Even if the doctor’s second-hand statements are true, they create a host of other unanswered questions. For one, now that authorities have the bullet, why haven’t they announced the results of a ballistics test to match the bullet with Robinson’s rifle? An even bigger red flag would be if they announce they have a match, it’s almost impossible to use a 30.06 round at 150 yards and slow it down sufficiently to lodge in the neck at a shallow depth. If they claim a match, I will suspect a planted bullet, just like the government planted the pristine “magic bullet” on Gov. Connolly’s stretcher after the JFK assassination that was supposed to go through Kennedy’s back and Connolly’s shoulder before it hit his knee, changing directions twice without deformation! What about a frontal shot on Kirk by a smaller caliber, low velocity gun? That would be the only possible way in which a round could enter Kirk’s neck without going very far. Last week, Jeff Rense presented just such a scenario, which I discounted because old fashioned palm pistols are so inaccurate it would be difficult to hit what you are aiming at, unless you were a few feet away. Here is the Rense video showing his theory about the guy in the khaki long-sleeved shirt with sunglasses raising his right hand with a small black spot barely visible between his two middle fingers and shooting Kirk from the front. It’s hard to see, but what I can see is a small recoil of his right hand exactly as the sound of the gunshot is heard. Is that recoil evidence that he just fired something out of his right hand as it was pointed at Kirk? Rense is convinced it’s him. Then for a second we see the hand go down near his chest pocket. Is he quickly hiding the weapon in his pocket? He has to have gotten rid of it because he next puts an empty right hand on the barrier as he climbs over, and helps attend to Kirk. If this is the shooter, which matches the profile of a low-powered small caliber weapon to Kirk’s front, the bullet they pulled out of Kirk’s frontal wound should NOT be a 30.06 180 grain bullet, but a much smaller one. Is this the reason the authorities are silent on the recovered bullet or any ballistic match to Robinson’s rifle? But what about the dual sound of the shot that accompanies a supersonic rifle bullet that some sound experts describe? If a bullet is fired supersonic, as almost all rifle rounds are, first you hear the crack of the bullet going supersonic followed a fraction of a second later by the sound of the bullet exiting the barrel. Silencers only silence the second sound. Sub-sonic rounds have to be used to eliminate the “crack” of a bullet breaking the sound barrier. In the case of a small weapon up front shooting at Kirk, you can hear the double sound, but it may be the rapid echo off the wall behind Kirk in the below-ground amphitheater. Lastly, could both a frontal shooter and Robinson be the perpetrators? That’s unlike because it would require perfectly timed precision to fire at the same time. The videos only register the sound of a single shot. If there were two shooters, one would have to be using a silenced weapon, and a silencer can never fit into the palm of anyone’s hand. It also leaves the question of where did Robinson’s bullet go if he actually did fire a shot in addition to the frontal shot. The evidence authorities are airing about his texts indicates that he thinks he did kill Kirk. That’s why I said in the title that this case is getting very weird and murky. It would also mean we are dealing with a much larger conspiracy here—not only that Tyler Robinson was a patsy but that he might not have even fired the round whose spent cartridge was still in the chamber of the rifle police say they found. Then, why does Robinson say all those incriminating things in the texts to his gay lover that authorities have published? There are dozens of people out there questioning the odd language of the texts and how that doesn’t represent how young gamers communicate. What young person today refers to a “police car” or “cop car” as a “Squad car,” found in his alleged texts? Did the FBI falsify the texts to incriminate him? A comment to the video above says: Former prosecutor here, the “text” messages between the shooter & the roommate were transcribed on a piece of paper and attached to the complaint. Normally, you would screen print the actual messages that show time/date stamps and parties and attach them. Then have the roommate sign an affidavit saying they were his. When you transcribe them it is no longer evidence, It becomes hearsay. These are BIG questions given that Robinson did bring his grandfather’s rifle up to Orem. He was on the roof of the Losee Center and did even go back and talk to at least one officer guarding the site where police say he dropped off the rifle wrapped in a towel. All this is pretty strong circumstantial evidence, combined with his fingerprints on the rifle and screwdriver used to break it down and put it back together. But, of course, police have to match the bullet taken from Kirk’s neck to Robinson’s Mauser rifle to seal the proof, and so far they haven’t announced that this has been done. I wonder if they ever will, given the extreme contradictions I’ve discussed here. A very stoic Robinson did not enter a plea when he appeared via video at his initial hearing this week, so Utah County judges plan for him to later be arraigned, at which point he would have to make a plea (guilty or not guilty) on the charges. We can dismiss a couple of the minor conspiracies mentioned this week. The private jet that took off from the Provo airport that went down to Arizona and back has been identified and cleared. It belonged to a private company, and it didn’t deliberately “turn off its radar” as some reports erroneously say, but rather disappeared from ADS-B surveillance coverage. ADS-B is the new technology installed in all aircraft that fly into high density airports. It has hundreds of ground stations around the nation that track the newest kind of installed transponders that electronically constant broadcast to Air Traffic Control an aircraft’s position, altitude and call sign. It’s on my airplane as well as all larger jets. But I also fly in the desert southwest and there are several areas too remote for ADS-B to pick up my transponder signal, and Air Traffic Control tells me their radar has trouble picking up aircraft in those same remote areas. The FAA investigated the jet’s pilot and determined he never did turn off his ADS-B transponder, but that ADS-B ground stations were too far away to pick up his transponder signal on the way down to Arizona. It’s happened to me before too. And the two men who were accused of making suspicious hand signals have also been investigated. But only one has been identified and cleared. It’s the guy all in white and a white hat on that he reaches up and touches the brim–a common signal in baseball. It turns out he is Frank Turek, who is a Christian and mentor/friend to Charlie Kirk, and he wasn’t signaling at all. The other guy in dark clothes standing next to him giving military style hand signals has not been explained so far, and if the Rense video turns out to be correct, there could be several conspirators in the audience. In summary, this case is too difficult to call right now, and will remain so until authorities provide more ballistic evidence and answer these difficult questions. If they don’t, the suspicion of a coverup and conspiracy will only grow. Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts