If You Think The English Royals Are Part Of The Real Control Grid, Perhaps You Should Reconsider harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in If You Think The English Royals Are Part Of The Real Control Grid, Perhaps You Should Reconsider Perhaps It Is Reassuring That The Royals Are Dispensable As Well. Or Perhaps The Opposite. Might Indicate That Almost All Of Us Are In Deep DooDoo. harry blazer Sep 13, 2025 Share Bombshell: Cardiologist links COVID-19 Vaccines to cancer in the British Royal Family By Paul Anthony Taylor A storm of controversy has erupted in Britain after a well-known cardiologist suggested that COVID-19 vaccines may have played a role in the cancer diagnoses of King Charles III and the Princess of Wales. Speaking at the Reform UK political party conference, Dr. Aseem Malhotra said it was “highly likely” that the shots had been “a significant factor” in the cancers suffered by the pair. His remarks, which he attributed to information given to him by Professor Angus Dalgleish , one of the UK’s most eminent oncologists, drew furious reactions from health officials and the legacy/mainstream media. Yet they also revive some key questions that have never been fully addressed. In particular, were these vaccines developed so quickly that they essentially formed the largest medical experiment in history? When the COVID-19 vaccines were rolled out in late 2020, politicians promised they would be a game-changing solution to the pandemic. With unprecedented speed, new technologies based on RNA and DNA were rushed to the market. In normal circumstances, vaccine development can take a decade or more, involving years of rigorous testing for safety and long-term effects. This time, however, the process was compressed into a matter of months. Regulatory agencies around the world were pressured to approve the shots using ‘emergency use’ authorizations, despite the absence of long-term safety data. Critics warned that this meant gambling with people’s health on a scale never seen before, but few authorities listened. Profound Concerns Dr. Malhotra’s comments bring these issues into sharp focus. If, as he suggests, Professor Angus Dalgleish, one of Britain’s top cancer experts, truly believes that COVID-19 vaccines were a contributing factor in the illnesses of two of the most high-profile figures in the UK, it is not credible to dismiss the matter as a scare story. The king and princess are not anonymous patients; their diagnoses shocked the British people and were reported worldwide. For vaccines that were promised to be both safe and effective, even the suggestion of a link with cancer raises profound concerns that demand serious investigation, not censorship or ridicule. Establishment voices have been quick to condemn Malhotra. The British government’s Health Secretary, Wes Streeting, accused Reform UK of giving a platform to “poisonous lies,” while a professor from the University of Cambridge derided the cardiologist’s claims as “pseudoscience.” Pharma-funded charity Cancer Research UK also weighed in, predictably insisting there is “no good evidence” connecting the vaccines to cancer. But behind these statements lies a glaring truth: long-term safety data cannot be produced because the vaccines simply have not existed long enough for such evidence to be gathered. In other words, when governments and authorities dismiss safety concerns as “baseless,” what they really mean is that the necessary research has not been completed – and, if they get their way, it probably never will be. Putting Corporate Power and Politics before Health Warnings about these dangers are not new. Back in November 2021, Dr. Matthias Rath issued an emergency call for the suspension of RNA- and DNA-based COVID-19 vaccines. His warning came after scientists in Sweden published alarming findings suggesting that the coronavirus spike protein – which these vaccines instruct the body to produce – can enter the nucleus of cells and interfere with DNA repair mechanisms. Proper DNA repair is essential for preventing cancer and other diseases. Dr. Rath described how the Swedish research demonstrated that, in the absence of such repair, potentially devasting side effects were possible. At the time, his call was ignored by politicians and the media, but today his words look chillingly prophetic. The idea that a medical intervention could interfere with fundamental cellular processes like DNA repair should have set off alarm bells everywhere. Yet governments and health agencies pressed ahead regardless, assuring the public that everything was safe. Instead of investigating the potential risks, they poured billions into vaccine contracts. Any doctors, scientists, or journalists who dared to raise concerns were censored, smeared, or stripped of their platforms. Far from being a triumph of science, the vaccine rollout became a triumph of politics and corporate power. It is worth recalling here that Dr. Malhotra is not a fringe figure. A consultant cardiologist with a long career in British medicine, he was once a prominent supporter of COVID-19 vaccination before eventually changing his position after reviewing the mounting evidence of harm. In 2016 he was listed in London’s Sunday Times newspaper as one of Britain’s 500 most influential people. He now serves as chief medical adviser to Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s health initiative, ‘Make America Healthy Again’ (MAHA), and continues to call for transparency and independent evaluation of the vaccines. His willingness to speak out, despite predictable backlash, should be seen as an act of professional courage rather than reckless speculation. Censorship and Hypocrisy The bigger question is why governments refuse to allow genuine scientific debate on this issue. If COVID-19 vaccines are truly safe, why suppress discussion? Why not conduct large-scale, independent studies to investigate potential links to cancer and other diseases? Instead of doing this, the response has been to double down on censorship, ridiculing anyone who questions the official narrative. This approach may protect pharmaceutical profits and political reputations, but it does nothing to protect public health. The implications are serious. Millions accepted COVID-19 injections under pressure from governments, employers, and even international travel rules. If evidence is now emerging that the injections can contribute to conditions as severe as cancer, then people affected do not only deserve answers – they have a right to demand accountability from those that pushed the shots so aggressively. Ultimately, the cancer controversy surrounding the British royal family is not just a private tragedy but a public reckoning. If two of the most prominent figures in the UK can be struck by serious illnesses potentially linked to vaccines, then potentially millions are at risk. The fact that Dr. Rath’s early warnings were essentially ignored illustrates how little regard many politicians have for proper scientific scrutiny when corporate profits are at stake. The Credibility of ‘Modern Medicine’ The world urgently needs a major reset in public health policy; prioritizing prevention and safe, natural approaches over experimental gene-based technologies is essential. High-dose vitamin C and other micronutrients have shown strong protective effects against COVID-19 without the risks posed by experimental vaccines. Yet such approaches have been systematically sidelined because they threaten the pharma industry’s trillion-dollar revenue stream from drugs. Dr. Malhotra’s statements may have shocked the establishment, but they should not surprise anyone who has been paying attention. The rushed COVID-19 vaccine rollout was a massive gamble, and now the world may be beginning to see the consequences. Rather than dismissing these warnings, it is time to confront them honestly and demand accountability. The credibility of ‘modern medicine’ itself is at stake. * This article was originally published on Dr. Rath Health Foundation . Executive Director of the Dr. Rath Health Foundation and one of the coauthors of our explosive book, “ The Nazi Roots of the ‘Brussels EU’ ”, Paul is also our expert on the Codex Alimentarius Commission and has had eye-witness experience, as an official observer delegate, at its meetings. You can find Paul on Twitter at @paulanthtaylor He is a regular contributor to Global Research. Featured image is from Adobe Stock / Dr. Rath Health Foundation The Worldwide Corona Crisis, Global Coup d’Etat Against Humanity by Michel Chossudovsky Michel Chossudovsky reviews in detail how this insidious project “destroys people’s lives”. He provides a comprehensive analysis of everything you need to know about the “pandemic” — from the medical dimensions to the economic and social repercussions, political underpinnings, and mental and psychological impacts. “My objective as an author is to inform people worldwide and refute the official narrative which has been used as a justification to destabilize the economic and social fabric of entire countries, followed by the imposition of the “deadly” COVID-19 “vaccine”. This crisis affects humanity in its entirety: almost 8 billion people. We stand in solidarity with our fellow human beings and our children worldwide. Truth is a powerful instrument.” Reviews This is an in-depth resource of great interest if it is the wider perspective you are motivated to understand a little better, the author is very knowledgeable about geopolitics and this comes out in the way Covid is contextualized. — Dr. Mike Yeadon In this war against humanity in which we find ourselves, in this singular, irregular and massive assault against liberty and the goodness of people, Chossudovsky’s book is a rock upon which to sustain our fight. – Dr. Emanuel Garcia In fifteen concise science-based chapters, Michel traces the false covid pandemic, explaining how a PCR test, producing up to 97% proven false positives, combined with a relentless 24/7 fear campaign, was able to create a worldwide panic-laden “plandemic”; that this plandemic would never have been possible without the infamous DNA-modifying Polymerase Chain Reaction test – which to this day is being pushed on a majority of innocent people who have no clue. His conclusions are evidenced by renown scientists. — Peter Koenig Professor Chossudovsky exposes the truth that “there is no causal relationship between the virus and economic variables.” In other words, it was not COVID-19 but, rather, the deliberate implementation of the illogical, scientifically baseless lockdowns that caused the shutdown of the global economy. – David Skripac A reading of Chossudovsky’s book provides a comprehensive lesson in how there is a global coup d’état under way called “The Great Reset” that if not resisted and defeated by freedom loving people everywhere will result in a dystopian future not yet imagined. Pass on this free gift from Professor Chossudovsky before it’s too late. You will not find so much valuable information and analysis in one place. – Edward Curtin ISBN: 978-0-9879389-3-0, Year: 2022, PDF Ebook, Pages : 164, 15 Chapters Price: $11.50 FREE COPY! Click here (docsend) and download . You may also access the online version of the e-Book by clicking here . Global Research is a reader-funded media. We do not accept any funding from corporations or governments. Help us stay afloat. Click the image below to make a one-time or recurring donation. The original source of this article is Global Research Copyright © Paul Anthony Taylor , Global Research, 2025 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts