A Portend Of Things To Come re: Your Money and Sovereignty harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in A Portend Of Things To Come re: Your Money and Sovereignty Funny How Things Get Prototyped By Countries We Have Been At War With harry blazer Sep 11, 2025 2 Share Vietnam Erases 86 Million Bank Accounts – The Great Reset in Motion Posted Sep 9, 2025 By Martin Armstrong - Armstrong Economics Vietnam has erased and/or frozen 86 million unverified bank accounts as the nation surrenders to the globalist Great Reset. Anyone wishing to function in society must surrender their biometric data to maintain a bank account. The State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) claims that the measure was a system cleanup aimed at preventing fraud. In actuality, the measure is one step closer toward a national ID system that enables the government to control its citizens’ every move. “ This is a data-cleansing revolution ,” said Pham Anh Tuan, Director of the Payment Department. “While the total number of bank accounts remains 200 million, by September 2025, once the legal framework is complete, all accounts without biometric data will be closed to prevent scams and fraud. After seven years of promoting non-cash payments, we are moving toward real efficiency.” Vietnam recently implemented a nationwide digital ID (e-ID) system called VNeID that requires both citizens and foreign residents to surrender to the matrix and permit the government to store their personal information in a centralized database. Fingerprints, facial biometric data, photographs, passports, nationality, criminal records, and even medical records will be stored in the government database. Participation is not optional. Project 06 launched in January 2022, hailed as a technological revolution to digitize the country. Project 06’s full name is the “Project on Developing Data Applications on Population, Identification, and Electronic Authentication to Serve National Digital Transformation in the 2022-2025 Period (Vision 2030),” which aligns entirely with the World Economic Forum’s plans for the Great Reset. The concept has been sold to the people as a convenience measure, but in truth, the aim is centralized, unrestrained control over the entire population. Everything from banking to renting an apartment is linked to the digital ID. One wrong move and the government can completely erase someone from the system. One glitch in the power grid and the nation will come to a standstill. The Vietnamese government has the power to halt a person’s life instantaneously. High-level Vietnamese officials met in Davos in January 2025, and shortly after, began voicing concern for bank accounts that were unverified through biometric data. Vietnam has been actively seeking OECD membership and signed a Memorandum of Understanding, citing that Project 06 will enable the nation to meet the OECD’s guidelines for regulatory reforms. Vietnam was one of the last nations disconnected from the Automatic Exchange of Information (AEOI) that requires members to share banking information under the pretense of preventing tax evasion. Vietnam signed the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters (MAAC) with the OECD in March 2023, enabling automatic exchange of tax and financial information with over 146 jurisdictions. In early 2025, shortly after Davos, Vietnam joined the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement (MCAA) for Country-by-Country Reporting (CbCR), broadening its commitment to AEOI and international tax transparency. In February 2025, Vietnam activated CbCR exchange relationships with 29 jurisdictions including the entire European Union. Globalist entities defy democracy and demand the complete surrender of national sovereignty under the belief that the world population must be controlled by one centralized force. The majority of world leaders have willingly surrendered, unaware of the full extent of power a small unelected few will yield if the Great Reset succeeds. Categories: GREAT RESET Tags: BANKING BIOMETRIC DATA DIGITAL ID AND THIS Blog Regulation Thailand – A Case Study for Biometric Data Control Thailand – A Case Study for Biometric Data Control Posted Sep 11, 2025 By Martin Armstrong | Thailand has become a test case for the use of biometric data in every facet of life. Facial recognition data is required for any single transfer above 50,000 baht (around $1,580), daily transfers above 200,000 baht, and any international transfers from personal accounts. All major Thai banks, such as Bangkok Bank, Kasikorn (KBank), SCB, Krungthai, and Krungsri, require customers to submit biometric data, and the Bank of Thailand (BOT) provides the general guidelines that these banks must follow. It may begin with banking and documentation, but the ultimate goal is to develop digital IDs that are stored on a centralized database. The board of Thailand’s National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission ( NBTC ) proposed that users must submit biometric data to register SIM cards. The rule went into effect in August and applies to everyone in Thailand, including tourists. The Thai Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), the Thai Red Cross Society, and the National Science and Technology Development Agency (NSTDA) has implemented the use of biometric data to track undocumented persons. Health agencies claim the technology can identify the spread of disease and assist in providing humanitarian aid and medical services. The MOPH claims the technology is 99.75% accurate . According to the Department of Labour’s Bureau of Alien Workers Administration, over 1 million undocumented migrants were in the nation as of July 2025. “The application of biometric technology not only improves healthcare, disease prevention and control, medical services, and humanitarian aid with accuracy and inclusivity, but also reflects the protection of human rights and dignity of undocumented people in Thailand. It also creates opportunities for education and research by Thai public health professionals to develop further benefits for the general population,” Health Minister Somsak Thepsuthin stated. The Thai Red Cross Society is a branch of the global Red Cross agency. Thailand’s Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) claims all personal data will be securely protected, but they have already begun sharing with international agencies. Thailand adopted digital IDs back in 2023, but they were primarily mandatory for business at the time. Now, Thailand’s National Digital ID system (NDID) is now held by a private-public consortium that holds the identities of over 40 million people. The Thailand Digital Arrival Card (TDAC) became mandatory for all travelers on May 1, 2025. Citizens are technically not required to obtain a digital ID but it certainly makes life easier if one wants to access digital wallets, online banking, claim government benefits, and so forth. The Thai government plans to expand Thailand’s digital ID policy to 1,000 public services within the next two years. All restrictive measures begin with a promise to guarantee safety. It appears optional, then convenient, before the measures are enforced through mandates. I know many people who have fled Thailand in recent years due to increased regulations and massive changes in taxation. Thailand is becoming a case study for the widespread use of biometric software, as government surveillance is becoming the new norm. 2 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Medical Truth Podcast Sep 11 Edited Not so fast; we still have a U.S. Constitution that is hanging on a thread to cover us for at least another week!! Fraud amongst hackers will be even worse for Governments to mitigate and prevent with these technologies!! These technologies will blow up upon themselves in the very near future!! I have spent the better part of the past 2 years studying cybersecurity! If man can make it, man can break it! The Fools Rush in!! Haste Makes Waste!! Reply Share 1 reply by harry blazer 1 more comment... Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts