The Ultimate and Foundational Refutation of AI and Transhumanism harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in The Ultimate and Foundational Refutation of AI and Transhumanism Understanding The Need To Understand The Premises (Presuppositions) Behind Ideas harry blazer Aug 20, 2025 Share AI devotes, who believe in the ultimate preeminence of AI relative to humans based on exponentially superior “intelligence”, and Transhumanists, who believe that all aspects of life can be engineered in a way to improve living things and their experiences, especially humans, using technologies such as digital-based solutions (including AI), nano tech, synthetic biology and other forms of genetic engineering, share a common premise. It is known as materialism, and when applied to Mind it states that all aspects of Mind and Thought can only and do only reside in the brain and must be the result of material interactions, physical processes - in the brain. In this sense, they believe that a computer-based AI will eventually be a superior brain to the human brain. But what if Mind or aspects of Mind exist outside of brains - including computer-based brains. Then the path we are on will destroy certain capacities that Humans and perhaps other living things have that are not even recognized as existing by the materialists. Their ideology prevents them from acknowledging that Mind outside of brains is even possible. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe I would suggest that if we care to look, there is possibly more evidence of mind being outside of the brain than the other way around. And the following discussion with a Neuroscientist and psychiatrist is one example of this. Interview with Dr Tara Swart harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts