Jon Rappoport On Gavin Newsom - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Jon Rappoport On Gavin Newsom Jon Is The Best!!! harry blazer Aug 19, 2025 Share Gavin Newsom IS his inner child JON RAPPOPORT AUG 17 harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe If he were just another guy in an office or even a boardroom, why would anyone care? But he’s the Governor of California, and he’s going to run for President. So I analyze him. He is his inner child, and it’s not tucked away far below the surface. It’s there, just under the veneer. At some point, he decided this child should behave in the way he thinks a girl would behave. So that’s what you see, peeking out through his embarrassingly transparent tough-guy act. He’s not competent at performing the tough-guy role. You get the sense he’s still in early rehearsals. It doesn’t help that he’s overtly meticulous about his appearance. The hair, the teeth, the smile, plus that photographer he hired to keep taking pictures of him. Moving right along, when it comes to action, to administration, he’s a mess. He’s not meticulous or on top of things or competent. He’s the child. He’s a complete failure in the adult world. On every important issue, he fails. Fortunately, there is a home for people like that. It’s the Democrat Party. They welcome failures. Gavin made his move a long time ago; he joined up. Failing to stop the killer drugs coming up through the border? Check. Failing to stop the flow of illegal immigrants coming up? Check. Failing to put together any sort of solution for the vastly spreading homeless population in California? Check. Failing to stop the vast spread of crime in the state? Check. Failing to stop the mass exodus from the state? Check. Driving the state government much deeper in debt? Check. Instituting or maintaining insane schemes, like the billion-dollar bullet train to nowhere, and the escalation of the minimum wage (driving small businesses into ruin)—check. Making San Francisco, where he was once Mayor, a shithole? Check. Failed to prepare California for inevitable wildfires, and now failing to help burned out homeowners rebuild? Check. Rabidly promoting California as a Sanctuary State, pandering to liberals who think they’re performing a religious sacrament by providing a home for criminals, gang members, and rip-off artists? Check. Gavin, the child, is a failure in the adult world. Every day, he has to pretend he’s an adult. The Democrat Party evaluation of him? Let’s see: He’s a white male liberal Governor who wears a suit well, isn’t physically offensive in the way Governors Pritzker and Tampon Tim Walz are, can talk his game in full sentences without backing down, doesn’t wander off into the clouds (like Kamala and Biden), isn’t viewed by liberal women as a threat…so he’s a leader. Therefore, he can run for President. And if elected, he can fail at everything. He fits the mold. He, the child, is essentially weak, so he can be bought off by every one of the power players who have bought the Democrat Party. Business as usual. The total destruction of America would proceed apace. Check. He carries the clean stink of the total phony. He’s good to go. -- Jon Rappoport harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts