The Fast Approaching Digital Control Grid - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in The Fast Approaching Digital Control Grid Thanks to Solari.com (Catherine Austin Fitts) harry blazer Aug 08, 2025 1 Share Presidential Candidates are chosen based on who is best suited to fulfill the next phase of the Totalitarian Tiptoe as David Icke describes it. Trump is an enthusiastic proponent of those technologies that will facilitate “The Digital Control Grid” and ultimately fulfill “The Transhumanist Agenda”. Thanks To Catherine Austin Fitts and the team at Solari.com, we now have a record of the initiatives underway thus far to accomplish these agendas. The Fast-Approaching Digital Control Grid A Checklist of Trump Administration Actions to Date August 4, 2025 “A complete reengineering of the U.S. government through the digital systems is now possible at high speed.” ~ Catherine Austin Fitts, Feb. 6, 2025 By Catherine Austin Fitts Note: This is a dynamic checklist, first published on April 16, 2025. As new developments arise, we are adding them to the checklist, noting the date of their addition. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Introduction A digital control grid is an electronic network of digital telecommunication and information systems that allows individuals to be surveilled, tracked, and made subject to invasive controls applied to their financial transactions and resource use (such as electricity, food, water, transportation)—compromising, if not ending, all human rights and liberties. Control grids operate with significant data collection and AI to apply social credit systems that can be dictated on a highly centralized basis. A digital control grid ends financial freedom, replacing markets with technocracy—a system run by rules created and maintained centrally by “experts.” Is the Trump Administration building a digital control grid? We provide the following checklist to assess the steps the Administration is (and is not) taking in a variety of areas to facilitate a rapid control grid build-out. We invite subscribers to post suggestions in the Comments section below. The Big Picture “Okay, let’s recap: REAL ID enforced; stablecoins incoming; mRNA Stargate project; TSA biometric overhaul; ICE using facial recognition; Palantir in 30+ federal agencies; Google/Amazon health data tracking; AI surveillance towers scanning highways. Surveillance State: engaged.” “Okay, let’s recap….” (@JasonBassler1) Money Summary : An all-digital currency and monetary system is essential to institute a digital control grid. The GENIUS Act There is support for legislation to create digital stablecoin infrastructure. Presumably, this can be used to create a programmable money system in both the U.S. and globally—in essence, a private CBDC. More on the GENIUS Act (added July 18, 2025) Exposing the Darkness Substack: Stablecoins “would likely eventually replace all cash, and would enable governments to freeze the accounts of anyone declared in violation of ‘lawful’ federal or state executive branch regulations, such as the vaccine mandates passed down in 2021 by [HHS]. Trump is doing the exact opposite of what he pledged…. He said he would ban CBDCs … but Stablecoins are in every important respect CBDCs.” Armstrong Economics: “[E]ssentially, the government is turning the stablecoin into a digital dollar of sorts. The concern here is that this could delve into digitizing all currency and creating a CBDC. The act specifically provides the government with the authority to ‘block, freeze, and reject specific or impermissible transactions.’ This provision is not intended to protect the world against drug smugglers and thieves. This provision is intended to grant government unlimited control over how people spend stablecoins.” While You Were Distracted: Trump’s GENIUS Act CBDC Will Allow Government to Punish Vaccine Mandate Refusers by Freezing Bank Accounts (Exposing the Darkness) While the World Was Distracted by Epstein (Armstrong Economics) GENIUS Act = Programmable Money (added July 23, 2025) Posted @solari_the: “Worried about Epstein? Congress & Administration signed into law the Genius Act with NO PROTECTIONS against programmable money. So the genociders and pedophiles will be able to track/turn your money on and off—so guess what happens when they want your kids?” Also posted @solari_the: “Why Secretary Bessent @SecScottBessent are there no financial freedom protections against programmable money in your stablecoins in the Genius Act? Are you trying to create a global financial kill box for every person on the planet? Could these systems be managed by social credit systems with Palantir type data analytic systems? Would this provide individualized integrated enforcement ranging from financial sanctions and financial kills to actual individual manhunt drone kills? And who would control this extraordinary system?” “Worried about Epstein? Congress & Administration signed into law the Genius Act….” “Why Secretary Bessent are there no financial freedom protections against programmable money…?” GENIUS Act plus BBB = a “1984” Scenario (added July 31, 2025) “[T]he Big Beautiful Bill plus the GENIUS Act has actually given all the tools of apparatus for the “1984” scenario…. We’ve actually consolidated all of the data of all the different departments and … we handed it over to Palantir…. The Orwellian data nightmare to build the social credit score and a global social credit score is here.” BlackRock and Palantir Have a New Plan… You Should Be Terrified w/ Simon Dixon (Rebel Capitalist Interviews) GENIUS Act Opens Door for Freezing/Seizing Assets (added July 31, 2025) Breeauna Sagdal: “If a U.S. citizen’s stablecoin holdings or related bank accounts are flagged, their access to those funds can be restricted without immediate recourse. While this applies to stablecoin transactions rather than traditional bank accounts, the integration of stablecoins into the broader financial system (e.g., through bank partnerships) creates indirect exposure to ALL monetary assets, holdings, and even real estate…. THIS is why it’s being called a backdoor to the digital control grid as it creates an alternative path to seize private property from U.S. Citizens OUTSIDE of the Constitution.” “This is exactly correct….” (@Breeauna9) White House AI & Crypto Czar The White House created a position to coordinate policy on AI and crypto. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) The new SEC Commissioner is a crypto lobbyist; all indications point to a reversal of policies related to crypto. $21 Trillion Missing Money There is $21T in undocumentable adjustments at the Department of Housing and Urban Development ($1T) and the Department of Defense ($20T) in the U.S. federal government as of fiscal 2015. To the best of our knowledge, the Administration has made no mention of any effort to identify where that money went and to get it back. The Missing Money website Debt-Based Currency There has been no discussion of the artificial nature of the U.S. debt and the possibility of issuing currency directly from the U.S. Treasury without debt. With as much as 50% or more of monthly spending coming from debt borrowings, the U.S. government is deeply dependent on the New York Fed and Treasury borrowings through the 24 primary dealers. The War for Bankocracy, a series by John Titus Banking The number of banks in America continues to fall. Number of FDIC-insured commercial banks in the United States from 2000 to 2024 (Statista) We know that the creation of small banks is one of the fastest ways to create real economic growth without inflation. The Case for Building Wealth with Richard A. Werner More community banks would be especially helpful to rebuild domestic capacity in the face of new tariff policies. The Trump Administration has indicated its intention to reengineer the FDIC. However, we do not yet know of any effort to encourage more community banks or the creation of State Banks. The Trump Administration Is Targeting the FDIC, Putting Americans’ Financial Wellbeing at Risk Organizing a Sovereign State Bank with Professor Richard A. Werner Private Equity Straw in 401(k) Plans (added July 28, 2025) On July 17, the Financial Times reported that President Trump plans to sign an executive order (EO) that “aims to unlock the $9 trillion retirement market by allowing 401(k) plans to invest in alternative assets.” According to the Financial Times ’ assessment, such a move would “spur a radical shift in the way Americans’ savings are managed.” Regulators would give 401(k) plans a green light to include “non-traditional investments” such as “digital assets, metals, private loans, infrastructure deals, and corporate buyout funds.” The EO “could benefit major private investment firms such as Blackstone, Apollo, and BlackRock … which have all pinned much of their future growth on investing money on behalf of retirement savers.” President Trump Plans to Open 401(k)s to Bitcoin, Crypto, Gold, and Private Equity: FT For further discussion of the EO’s implications, listen to the July 24, 2025 episode of Money & Markets (“Crosshairs”) Executive Orders and Actions : Strengthening U.S. Leadership in Digital Financial Technology While banning CBDC, on the one hand, the Administration is aggressively working toward stablecoin adoption. Strengthening American Leadership in Digital Financial Technology (White House, Jan. 23, 2025) Strengthening American Leadership in Digital Financial Technology (July 2025 report of Working Group on Digital Asset Markets) (added July 31, 2025) The War on Cash Summary : An all-digital monetary system with complete central control requires putting an end to the circulation of cash and checks. Cancellation of Pennies President Trump has directed the Treasury to stop minting new pennies. Trump Orders U.S. Treasury to Stop Minting New Pennies, Citing Rising Cost of Producing the Coin Getting Rid of the Penny Introduces a New Problem: Nickels (added June 18, 2025) Tracking Cash Tips (added May 21, 2025) According to USA Today on May 17, a bill proposed by House Republicans “would create a temporary tax deduction through 2028 for employees and independent contractors in occupations that ‘traditionally and customarily received tips,’ likely servers, for example.” This appears to be part of the push to track cash flows and eventually supplant cash tips with digital QR codes (something already being widely encouraged by hotels). House Republicans’ Bill Includes “No Tax on Tips” Proposal. How Would It Work? Social Security Goes 100% Paperless (added July 21, 2025) Over 73 million Americans (retired and disabled workers, survivors of deceased workers, and recipients of Supplemental Security Income) receive Social Security payments, most of which are made electronically. In March 2025, President Trump mandated the elimination of payment by check, forcing 520,000 people to choose either direct deposit or prepaid debit card payment. According to the Senior Citizens League, “The transition to electronic Social Security payments could pose significant challenges for unbanked individuals, those without internet access, or those who are not computer literate.” Social Security Checks Go Paperless This Fall, Impacting Half a Million Seniors Executive Orders and Actions: “Modernizing” Federal Bank Payments This order requires all-digital payments—no more checks and money orders. Modernizing Payments to and from America’s Bank Account (White House, Mar. 25, 2025) Financial Disclosure Summary : Secrecy in government finances, and missing money past and present, permit funding of the control grid and those who support it. Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) Statement 56 There has been no attempt to rescind this administrative policy, which essentially has taken U.S. financial statements dark; it was instituted by the first Trump Administration and Congress in October 2018. FASAB Statement 56: Understanding New Government Financial Accounting Loopholes Financial Disclosure There has been no effort to publish reliable financial statements or to move toward compliance with laws related to financial disclosure, nor has there been any discussion of the possibilities of providing easily accessible disclosure by place, such as disclosure of U.S. federal budgets and financials contiguous to Congressional districts. Legal Series – U.S. Monetary and Fiscal Operations Discussion of Community Wizard software in “Hamilton Securities Group,” Chapter XI in Dillon Read & Co. Inc. & the Aristocracy of Stock Profits DOGE As the DOGE team determines and implements large layoffs and changes in systems, there is a real question as to whether it is “whiting out” institutional memory and documentation. There appears to be no effort to find the $1T missing from HUD, even as half of HUD employees are scheduled to be laid off. There have also been reports of layoffs in FOIA offices, including at FDA and CDC. To what extent are the DOGE team’s “efficiency efforts” being used to “white out” records about criminality, such as missing money or the poisoning of the citizenry? Epstein Files While the Epstein files remain undisclosed, the White House and Cabinet appear to have multiple appointees who were intimate with Epstein, including the President and Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnick, who was Epstein’s next-door neighbor in Manhattan as chairman of primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald. Dual-Citizen Passports There is no disclosure regarding how many Cabinet and subcabinet positions have more than one citizenship and passport—and no disclosure regarding the President, the First Lady, and their family—or about the financial privileges that such arrangements may provide. White House Ethics The White House Ethics officer was fired at the beginning of the Trump Administration, along with 18 Inspector Generals. Digital IDs and Biometric Surveillance Summary : A highly precise digital ID system is essential to operate a digital control grid. The U.S. has been trying to implement this type of digital ID since the immediate passage of the Patriot Act after 9/11, with the current drive to do so happening through the REAL ID system operated through the states. REAL ID Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem is aggressively promoting the REAL ID with a misleading campaign that is trying to persuade people that they will not be able to fly in the United States without a REAL ID. This is not correct. Yes! You Can Fly – Without a Real ID Signs at airports and driver’s license bureaus inaccurately maintain that, starting May 7, 2025, an unconstitutional REAL ID in the works since 2005 is required to fly; however, the REAL ID Act only requires a federal ID (among other federal IDs, a passport qualifies). A number of states have mandated REAL ID driver’s licenses, and many others make acquiring a non-REAL ID difficult. REAL ID regulations allow federal agencies to require REAL ID for entry into federal buildings or take other agency-relevant actions involving REAL ID. Many expect that biometric features will be added to the REAL ID and that the REAL ID may be used to institute a social credit score or system to limit or condition receipt of federal benefits on REAL ID use. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and Biometrics TSA continues to aggressively promote biometrics with travelers who fly to the United States; many do not know they can opt out, and reports vary as to whether opting out is even still possible at some airports. TSA procedures are making it difficult to fly without entering biometric information. Ground Travel Biometrics A federal regulatory agency has implemented biometrics for commercial motor vehicle applications. Trucker ID Verification with Idemia Biometrics Launched by US Regulator Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Biometrics (added June 10, 2025) “ICE has engineered a multi-pronged enforcement infrastructure that has stitched together federal, state, local, and private systems. It’s a biometric reach that extends from fingerprints in county jails to facial scans in city streets, license plates in suburban neighborhoods, and income declarations in federal tax filings…. The question is no longer whether ICE is building a surveillance state, but whether it has already built one without anyone noticing.” ICE Is at the Center of a Vast and Growing US Biometric Surveillance Capability ICE Protests (added June 10, 2025) “Roughly 700 Marines are deploying to the Los Angeles area to protect federal buildings and personnel in the wake of protests over immigration that have already led President Trump to federalize National Guard troops.” Marines Are Deploying to L.A. Area as ICE Protests Continue “One Big Beautiful Bill” (added July 3, 2025) “The One Big Beautiful Bill Act … gives more than $175 billion in immigration funding for 2025 alone. While opponents of illegal immigration may cheer this funding, we should take note that $30 billion is for ‘digital modernization efforts’ involving AI and biometric surveillance…. The mention of a biometric entry/exit system and surveillance towers is perfectly in line with the long-term plans of the US government and Donald Trump during his first administration…. These types of technological encroachments—facial recognition, gait detection, and retina scanning—have often been known as a ‘smart’ or ‘virtual’ border wall.” Trump’s Big Brother Bill Expands the U.S. Surveillance State More on Passage of One Big Beautiful Bill (added July 14, 2025) “The BBB passed amidst carping from every conceivable corner of the political spectrum…. But few spotted, or cared about, the Trojan Horse that just snuck in with a ginormous payload for Technocracy, AI, and biometric surveillance. This is on par with the Patriot Act.” Trump’s BBB Just Passed by Senate Will Permanently Entrench the Technocratic State Palantir and the Facial Recognition Database (added July 21, 2025) The Last Refuge reports, “Palantir continues benefiting from govt contracts not just for military application but also for facial recognition processes within (1) the deportation operation, (2) implementation of Real ID, (3) DHS/TSA use at entry points.” Palantir’s stock value has gone from $51.13 on the day after the 2024 election to $153.99 as of July 18, 2025. Unfortunately, Target Exceeded with Faster Timeline Election Fraud The Administration is citing election fraud as an excuse to push for digital IDs. The proposed Safeguard American Voter Eligibility (SAVE) Act would amend the National Voter Registration Act to require Americans seeking to register or re-register to vote to present a REAL ID-compliant ID proving U.S. citizenship. People whose federal ID names (e.g., on their passports) do not match their birth certificates would be required to provide proof of name change or a marriage certificate. Support H.R. 55 to Repeal the National Voter Registration Act Financial and Other Data, Payment Systems, and AI Summary : To build a digital control grid, digital IDs must link with programmable money and interoperable systems across multiple platforms (banks, credit cards, online payment systems), which can be integrated with social credit and surveillance systems. The data capacity required for an all-digital monetary system combined with programmable money and a social credit system is significant, as are the related energy demands. Stargate LLC (Data Centers and AI) The Stargate initiative involves the building out of data centers sufficient to support a complete control grid and all-digital monetary system. Stargate LLC (Wikipedia) The Stargate proposal for personalized mRNA “vaccines” for cancer (and everything else) indicates a plan to roll out the injection program sufficient to implement the Internet of Bodies and continue to lower life expectancy. Stargate funding also helps support the ongoing global rollout of “mega” vaccine factories. It is not clear how Musk’s desire through Neuralink to insert mesh networks inside human brains fits in, as it appears that injections can get the system most if not all of the way to where it wants to go—and it is much easier to market injections that are “good” for you. DOGE Based on detailed reporting by WIRED magazine, it appears that significant federal data are being privatized on the “just do it” method, presumably through Musk’s Xai and its partnership with Palantir. There is also a push for digitizing federal systems and records and updating systems. DOGE is focusing on agencies that handle high-quality payment data for most or all Americans, including Social Security, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and Treasury. These are some of the agencies whose data would be most appropriate for implementing programmable money with a social credit system. WIRED reporting on DOGE DOGE’s focus on Social Security and the IRS is important. In a recent review of American legal history from the 1871 “Act to Provide a Government for the District of Columbia” forward, Josh Stylman had some interesting comments on these two agencies: “ What can be verified in the historical record is that during Wilson’s administration, several mechanisms were indeed established that fundamentally altered the relationship between citizens and government—including the Federal Reserve System, income taxation, and later the Social Security system with its universal numerical identification. These systems, while presented as public benefits, effectively created trackable financial identities that constitutional scholars like Edwin Vieira Jr. have analyzed as potential instruments of financial monitoring and control. As Vieira argues, these mechanisms transformed the citizen-state relationship into one increasingly mediated through financial institutions rather than direct constitutional protections.” The Corporate Veil: America’s Hidden Transformation The Administration has denied the rumored closing of Social Security satellite offices, but staff members say planned office closures, staffing and service cuts, and policy changes at the Social Security Administration have caused “complete, utter chaos” and are threatening to send the agency into a “death spiral.” Recorded phone messages to those who call for help encourage online problem-solving, where it is necessary to set up an ID-me account with an offshore entity. DOGE leader Elon Musk initially announced that the DOGE goal was to cut $2 trillion in current expenditures from federal spending. DOGE later reduced that goal to $1 trillion. During the second week of April, Musk provided a Cabinet briefing indicating that DOGE expected to reduce 2025 expenditures by $150 billion, which is significantly less than expected increases in military and interest expenses. Was the privatization of data and systems the priority? Musk has also donated Starlink Wi-Fi to the White House, which begs the question: Who has access to confidential White House data and conversations? Corporate Contractors The reduction in civil service employment is expected to increase control of information and payment systems by private parties and corporate contractors, resulting in increased control of fiscal policy by central bankers (as opposed to Congress). Reducing the membership and powers of public unions can also make implementation of unconstitutional policies much easier. Cross-Border Payments The Trump Administration is requiring disclosure on payments on the U.S.-Mexico border. Feds to Collect Personal Info of People Exchanging, Sending Money from U.S.-Mexico Border AI Regulation (added May 21, 2025) According to an AP report on May 16, “House Republicans surprised tech industry watchers and outraged state governments when they added a clause to Republicans’ signature ‘big, beautiful’ tax bill that would ban states and localities from regulating artificial intelligence for a decade. The brief but consequential provision…would be a major boon to the AI industry….” House Republicans Include a 10-Year Ban on US States Regulating AI in “Big, Beautiful” Bill AI Globally (added May 21, 2025) According to a May 17 report in The Guardian , the deals made by President Trump during his Middle East tour “stand to enrich tech CEOs substantially by opening up new audiences for their products…. [T]he US and the United Arab Emirates agreed on Abu Dhabi as the site of the largest artificial intelligence campus outside the US.” How Donald Trump’s “Historic” Gulf State Deals Benefit a Handful of Powerful Men Consumer Data (added May 21, 2025) According to a Reuters report on May 14, “The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is scrapping a proposal…that would have sharply limited the sale of Americans’ private information by “data brokers”…. The agency also yanked proposals that sought to extend consumer protections to the use of new digital payment technologies including cryptocurrency, and that would have prohibited certain terms in the fine print in consumer finance products. In a statement, Consumer Reports said the withdrawal of the data broker proposal would leave consumers ‘vulnerable to scams and identity theft.’” Trump Administration Scraps Biden-Era Plan to Limit Sale of Americans’ Personal Data Master Database (added June 1, 2025) “The Trump administration is collecting data on all Americans, and they are enlisting the data analysis company Palantir to do it…. The [March executive] order has increased fears that the government is putting together a database to wield surveillance powers over the American public…. Palantir has taken more than $113 million in government spending since Trump took office, from both existing contracts and new ones with the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security. That number is expected to grow.” Trump Taps Palantir to Create Master Database on Every American “Congratulations, MAGA is being taken for a ride to the surveillance state.” (@DougAMacgregor sharing Palantir stock chart, added August 6, 2025) Interoperable Health Data/”Digital Health Tech Ecosystem” (added July 31, 2025) Tech companies and HHS officials are conferring about how to achieve “more seamless sharing of health-care data.” In addition to RFK and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Mehmet Oz, the effort involves acting DOGE administrator Amy Gleason and CMS senior adviser Arda Kara, both of whom worked for health-tech startups prior to joining the Trump administration. “ The administration is marketing its “Digital Health Tech Ecosystem” as a way to “bring healthcare into the digital age” with the help of “trusted partners” like openAI, Amazon, Anthropic, Apple, Microsoft AI, and Google. Technocrat Sweep: US Health Officials, Tech Executives to Launch Data-Sharing Plan (Technocracy News) Trump Administration Is Launching a New Private Health Tracking System with Big Tech’s Help (AP) “Trump launches ‘Digital Health Tech Ecosystem’….” (@disclosetv) More on Health Database (added July 31, 2025) AP announced that “More than 60 companies…have agreed to share patient data….” Jon Rappoport’s comments: “[O]nly a fool would fail to realize…that technocrats are building ONE GIANT MASTER DATABASE that will include all Americans. And this database will profile and detail each individual human from hundreds of angles…. Kennedy is revealing he has a very large appetite for data.” The Data Freaks Are Moving in for the Kill (Jon Rappoport) Social Credit Systems (added June 1, 2025) “While China’s government-run [social credit system] is unique, American companies have quietly built a sprawling and mostly unregulated personal scoring counterpart. Less centralized than China’s, it is in some ways more sophisticated, as profit-driven firms have experimented with minimal oversight…. The true number of such systems, both commercial and government-run, remains unknown….” Which Social Credit Systems Are Developing? Executive Orders and Actions: America’s Bank Account; Information Silos; AI Leadership Three executive orders centralize federal data and payment verification into Treasury; centralize federal databases and systems integration; and promote “decisive” action to retain global AI leadership. Protecting America’s Bank Account against Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (Mar. 25, 2025) Stopping Waste, Fraud, and Abuse by Eliminating Information Silos (Mar. 20, 2025) Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence (Jan. 23, 2025) AI Action Plan and Additional AI Executive Orders (added July 28, 2025) On July 23, 2025, the White House released “Winning the AI Race: America’s AI Action Plan,” identifying over 90 federal policy actions grouped around three pillars: Accelerating Innovation, Building American AI Infrastructure, and Leading in International Diplomacy and Security. Among other strategies, the plan envisions the delivery of “AI export packages” (including hardware, models, software, applications, and standards) to America’s global “friends and allies,” and—by “expediting and modernizing permits for data centers and semiconductor fabs”—the rapid buildout of new data centers. On the same date, the White House issued a new executive order (EO), “Preventing Woke AI in the Federal Government,” two months after issuing (on April 23) AI-related EO, “Advancing AI Education for American Youth.” Both follow on the administration’s January 23 EO, “Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence.” In early June, Richard Gale and Dr. Gary Null commented: “Corporations developing AI stand to gain staggering profits. If a company earns $100 million annually, traditional valuation metrics would price it between $500 million to $1 billion. But AI-based firms are now valued at 100 times their annual earnings or more, even when they haven’t launched a product. This is a speculative frenzy fueled by the belief that AI will become the central engine of the global economy. Estimates project that AI could generate $15 trillion globally by 2030.” White House Unveils America’s AI Action Plan (July 23, 2025) EO: Preventing Woke AI in the Federal Government (July 23, 2025) and Fact Sheet EO: Advancing Artificial Intelligence (AI) Education for American Youth (April 23, 2025) and Fact Sheet The Coming Artificial Intelligence Crisis: Power Without Oversight The Internet of Bodies Summary : During the first Trump Administration, the president appointed a pharmaceutical executive who was an expert in brain-machine interface to run Operation Warp Speed. Around the same time, the chief science officer at Moderna described the mRNA technology in the Covid injections as the installation of an “operating system” in the human body. Our interest in the Internet of Bodies (IoB) as a potentially integral part of the control grid and surveillance has grown ever since. Center for Internet of Bodies: Where Connectivity, Security, and Intelligence Meets Human Body to Transform Lives It should be noted that the Administration continues to promote the Covid mRNA injections. Staying Up to Date with COVID-19 Vaccines (published as of Apr. 13, 2025, while dated Jan. 7, 2025) At his confirmation hearing, HHS Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. stated, “I’ll just say about Operation Warp Speed, it was an extraordinary accomplishment, [it] showed demonstration of leadership by President Trump.” Wearables (added May 21, 2025) HHS announced on May 19 that Secretary Kennedy was meeting “with leaders at the forefront of health technology—innovators creating wearable devices, AI tools, and personalized apps.” Our response on X: “Well looks like Game Over. Between Elon putting mesh networks in the back of your head, Trump promising mRNA vaccines with Stargate and Casey Means engineering wires under your skin to track you, this Administration is all in on the INTERNET OF BODIES—moving digital technology and the digital control grid into your body and mind.” Well looks like Game Over…. Today, @SecKennedy met with leaders…. More on Wearables (added June 26, 2025) Secretary Kennedy to House Committee on Energy and Commerce (June 24, 2025), “We think that wearables are a key to the MAHA agenda of making America healthy again, and … my vision is that every American is wearing a wearable within four years.” Our response on X: “Musk and RFK now competing for who can make the digital concentration camp more fashionable—including the train tracks for electronic surveillance, mind control and IoB more fashionable. Do you find slavery attractive? RFK now betraying everything he ever said he stood for.” Musk and RFK now competing…. RFK Jr. wants every American to use “wearable” health data-collecting technology Cognitive Liberty (added June 12, 2025) Truthstream Media: “We need to stop deceiving ourselves—this is a digital gulag that we’re being marched right into like sheep…. We don’t have to do this.” Give Me Cognitive Liberty or Give Me Death (Truthstream Media) Telecommunication Systems Summary : The push is on to get the entire population online so that they can interact in an all-digital system, accessible to surveillance, AI, and transaction control. US Senate Panel Advances Trump Nominee to Oversee $42-Billion Government Internet Fund The U.S. Postal Service has filed notice with the Postal Regulatory Commission to raise prices by approximately 7.5%, effective July 13, 2025. If approved, the price of a First-Class Mail Forever stamp would increase from $0.73 to $0.78, further crippling efforts to communicate non-digitally. Assets Summary : Before the presidential election, now-Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnick described U.S. land and mineral resources as a “balance sheet” worth an estimated $500T. Plunder Capitalism: Is the Bitcoin Strategic Reserve Trial Balloon the Next Step in the Great American Land Grab? Development of Federal Lands The Department of the Interior and HUD have announced a task force to explore housing development on Federal lands. Secretary Burgum, HUD Secretary Turner Announce Joint Task Force to Reduce Housing Costs and Open Access to Underutilized Federal Lands Suitable for Residential Development (Mar. 17, 2025) HUD Secretary Turner has experience with Opportunity Zones—place-based investment zones that shelter investors from capital gains taxes if they reinvest in these state-designated vehicles. Opportunity Zones: Prototyping Community Technocracy with Patrick Wood Tax Treaties (added June 1, 2025) “Investors in nations with tax regimes that the US deems unfair would face higher tax rates on income earned in the US if the tax bill that’s making its way to the Senate [passed by the House on May 22] becomes law…. The move to target allies with which the US has decades-old tax treaties underscores US President Donald Trump’s willingness to change or break longstanding agreements with other nations…. Institutional investors including sovereign wealth funds, pension funds and even government entities would be affected, as well as retail investors and businesses with US assets.” “Revenge Tax” to Hit US Allies with Tax Rules Tagged Unfair by Trump Executive Orders and Actions: Crypto Asset Forfeiture; Creation of Sovereign Wealth Fund Asset Forfeiture Fund included in the push to increase federal crypto holdings. The announcement raised concerns about related insider trading. Establishment of the Strategic Bitcoin Strategic Reserve and United States Digital Asset Stockpile (Mar. 6, 2025) Ranking Member Connolly Urges Treasury to Cease Plans to Establish Strategic Cryptocurrency Reserve, Trump’s New Get Rick Quick Scheme A Plan for Establishing a United States Sovereign Wealth Fund (Feb. 3, 2025) Energy Summary : An all-digital control grid and AI use extraordinary amounts of energy. One article in Bloomberg predicted that Texas would need 30 new nuclear power plants to support data centers by 2030. Texas Needs Equivalent of 30 Reactors to Meet Data Center Power Demand Energy Policy President Trump’s “Drill, baby, drill” energy policy is focused on significantly increasing domestic energy resources. President Trump: “Drill, Baby, Drill” Energy Demands of All-Digital Monetary System Big Tech has been open about its desire for additional sources of energy. Big Tech Wants to Become an Independent Nuclear Power Executive Orders and Actions: Unleashing Energy; Energy Emergency Unleashing Alaska’s Extraordinary Resource Potential (Jan. 20, 2025) Unleashing American Energy (Jan. 20, 2025) Declaring a National Energy Emergency (Jan. 20, 2025) Budget Summary : Despite the early emphasis on cutting expenditures, the Administration is taking numerous steps to increase expenditures. It supported the Continuing Resolution, which extended the Biden spending plan. The Tax Policy Institute estimates that the Trump tariffs will generate approximately $3.3T from 2026 to 2035, including an additional $190 billion in 2025. However, this will be more than offset by the Trump tax cuts: “ The Tax Policy Center estimates extending the TCJA [2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act] would add $4.4 trillion to the national debt over the next decade. Interest on the additional debt would cost another $800 billion. Tax-free tips would cost at least $6.5 billion in 2025 alone, while exempting Social Security benefits from tax would reduce federal revenues by $1.5 trillion over a decade. The Senate is considering a budget framework that would cut taxes by about $5.3 trillion. If not offset by tariffs or other tax increases, or by substantial cuts in federal spending, the Senate fiscal plan would increase the national debt to 134 percent of Gross Domestic Product in a decade.” Trump’s Tariffs Will Raise Much Less Than the White House Says, TPC Finds The Administration has hoped that the tariff policy would help lower interest rates, lowering the cost of refinancing maturing Treasury debt and issuing more debt as well. However, the initial response has been to raise the yields on Treasury bonds. In the meantime, the Secretary of Defense has indicated that the military budget needs to be increased from its current level in the Continuing Resolution of $893 billion for 2025 to an annual $1 trillion. Fiscal Conservatives (added May 21, 2025) Asked by the press about Rep. Thomas Massie and his commitment to keeping the federal budget under control, President Trump stated, “I don’t think Thomas Massie understands government. I think he’s a grand-stander, frankly…I think he should be voted out of office.” President Trump on @RepThomasMassie…. Federal Reserve Summary : Independent of the Administration, the Fed continues to roll out its FedNow “instant payments” system. FedNow Other Border Control The military has been deployed on the southern border, with heightened controls on the northern border. What increased federal border and port control will be needed to enforce tariffs? There are increasing signs of tech being used to control the border. Federal Judge Allows Trump to Require Illegal Aliens to Register in Online Database or Face Prison Time, Fines Trump Can Solve Illegal Immigration Crisis by Requiring Employers use E-Verify Trump Orders Military to Seal Southern Border What Military Assets Has Trump Deployed to the US Southern Border? Troops, Warships, Spy Planes, and More Colombia and U.S. Sign Biometrics Deal on Migration Surveillance Police departments in various cities have instituted “Ring” doorbell registries for local residents that allow the police to surveil “connected” neighborhoods. In the case of the Cincinnati program (powered by Axon Fusus), camera registration offers location details for investigators to request footage. Additionally, the Cincinnati Police Department (CPD) is offering residents and businesses the opportunity to upgrade their video systems to include live video feeds. Installation of a small CORE device enables sharing of live footage with CPD “during emergencies to improve police response times.” The live feed can be triggered using a smartphone app or manual button. Real-Time Operations Platform: A Unified Public Safety Ecosystem for Connected Communities CPD Launches Voluntary Community Camera Registry harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe 1 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts