Video Followup by Oliver Stone: JFK Revisited: Through The Looking Glass harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Video Followup by Oliver Stone: JFK Revisited: Through The Looking Glass harry blazer Jul 31, 2025 Share JFK Revisted: Through The Looking Glass harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe AS I HAVE MENTIONED BEFORE, anyone who cares about truth will never rely on an “Official Government Investigation” based on “Government Records” (which have always been sanitized) for the truth.. Generally, these investigations are designed with two primary goals: 1) To find out what is known and by whom 2) To suppress or manipulate or obscure by means necessary any information that will go against the official narrative and reveal the hidden circumstances and agenda(s) that supposedly are being investigated. That’s why the key “who dunnit” question remains officially unanswered for anything significant like assassinations of JFK, RFK, MLK, Malcolm X, events like 9-11 and the ,attempt on Trump’s life, and certainly Epstein. There closest you will get to the truth is through independent researchers with the courage and persistence and skill to do the hard work of uncovering the lies and connecting the dots. This video is further proof of my claims. With few exceptions, our governments, with the support of most media and judiciary, are a criminal enterprise, from top to bottom - local, state, regional, federal - and have been for decades. And until we stop funding that enterprise and celebrating the criminals, it will persist until there is nothing left of the Republic. A thorough investigation of the Epstein saga represented a quintessential opportunity to unravel this criminal enterprise. That is why under the auspices of governments, it will never happen. There may be government sponsored hearings and investigations, but they will be distractions and ultimately effective as designed -for deception and coverup. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts