A Lot of Articles On Jeffrey Epstein With Links harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in A Lot of Articles On Jeffrey Epstein With Links Just In Case You Had Any Doubts harry blazer Jul 23, 2025 1 Share FROM: https://www.wanttoknow.info/jeffrey-epsteinmediaarticles Jeffrey Epstein News Stories Below are key excerpts of revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable news media sources. If any link fails to function, a paywall blocks full access, or the article is no longer available, try these digital tools . harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Explore our comprehensive news index on a wide variety of fascinating topics. Explore the top 20 most revealing news media articles we've summarized. Check out 10 useful approaches for making sense of the media landscape. Sort articles by: Article Date | Date Posted on WantToKnow.info | Importance Jeffrey Epstein Exploited the U.S. Virgin Islands for a Reason 2025-05-26, Lee Fang on Substack Posted: 2025-06-11 15:52:30 read on leefang.com I had to pay a student to go island hopping to find basic records in the U.S. Virgin Islands. The territory's opaque laws and corruption makes it a haven for misdeeds. Albert Bryan Jr., the current governor, used his position to curry favor for Jeffrey Epstein for years. He helped bestow tax exemptions on Epstein's shadowy businesses and pushed for waivers allowing the former financier to dodge USVI sex offender laws. Bryan, whose hand-selected Attorney General swiftly ended the J.P. Morgan lawsuit that revealed a gusher of damning documents about Epstein's network, is now tapping Epstein victim settlement funds ... to pay for various earmarks and unrelated government debts . Former Attorney General Denise George led a series of lawsuits against Epstein's estate and former associates. Bryan fired her. In 2024, Bryan named a new Attorney General—none other than Gordon Rhea, a private practice attorney who previously defended Richard Kahn during the Epstein estate lawsuit. Not long ago, Kahn and Indyke were described by the U.S. Virgin Islands as &quot;indispensable captains&quot; of Epstein's alleged criminal human trafficking enterprise. We still have many unanswered questions. Why did U.S. Virgin Islands police and customs agents never act to protect the young girls they saw taken to Epstein's islands? What is clear, however, is that an attorney who worked to protect Epstein's estate is now the chief law enforcement officer of the U.S. Virgin Islands. Note: Read our comprehensive Substack investigation covering the connection between Epstein’s child sex trafficking ring and intelligence agency sexual blackmail operations. For more along these lines, read our concise summaries of news articles on government corruption and Jeffrey Epstein's child sex trafficking ring . Jeffrey Epstein Invested With Peter Thiel, and His Estate Is Reaping Millions 2025-06-04, New York Times Posted: 2025-06-11 15:50:02 read on nytimes.com Jeffrey Epstein, the registered sex offender, met with many powerful people in finance and business during his career, but the financier invested with only a few of them. One of those people was Peter Thiel, the Silicon Valley billionaire. In 2015 and 2016, Mr. Epstein put $40 million into two funds managed by Valar Ventures, a New York firm that was co-founded by Mr. Thiel. Today that investment is worth nearly $170 million. The investment in Valar, which specializes in providing start-up capital to financial services tech companies, is the largest asset still held by Mr. Epstein’s estate. There’s a good chance much of the windfall will not go to any of the roughly 200 victims whom the disgraced financier abused when they were teenagers or young women . Those victims have already received monetary settlements from the estate, which required them to sign broad releases that gave up the right to bring future claims against it or individuals associated with it. The money is more likely to be distributed to one of Mr. Epstein’s former girlfriends and two of his long-term advisers, who have been named the beneficiaries of his estate. Just one major federal civil lawsuit remains pending against the executors of the estate, a potential class action filed on behalf victims who haven’t yet settled with the estate. In the past, victims have received settlements ranging from $500,000 to $2 million. Note: Read our comprehensive Substack investigation covering the connection between Epstein’s child sex trafficking ring and intelligence agency sexual blackmail operations. For more along these lines, read our concise summaries of news articles on Big Tech and Jeffrey Epstein's child sex trafficking ring . Jeffrey Epstein's Dark Legacy Still Clouds the Virgin Islands 2025-05-21, Lee Fang on Substack Posted: 2025-06-11 15:46:06 read on leefang.com When Jeffrey Epstein purchased Little Saint James, the teardrop-shaped island southeast of St. Thomas, in the late 1990s ... he told U.S. Virgin Islands officials that he was seeking privacy. He also appears to have purchased impunity. Investigators accuse him of raping and sexually abusing girls as young as eleven at his island compound where he also hosted many A-list politicians, business leaders and celebrities. One 15-year-old, whom Epstein allegedly forced into sex acts, attempted to escape by swimming away from the island. She was caught and her passport was taken away. While Epstein was alive, Virgin Islands officials appear to have shielded him from scrutiny. After his death in 2019, other officials who aided Epstein began profiting from continued secrecy and a string of legal settlements ... that put hundreds of millions of dollars under the government’s control. No one appears to have benefited more than Albert Bryan Jr., the governor of the territory. Bryan has tapped the Epstein settlement funds to pay for a variety of his domestic political agenda items. The proceeds were promised to assist victims of sexual assault, human trafficking, sexual misconduct, and child sexual abuse. In late April, Bryan ... announced the allocation of $22 million in retroactive wages to government workers . Bryan [also] applied the Epstein funds for vendor payments and sought to use the money for a variety of other earmarks, such as a $25 million makeover for the Justice Building on St. Croix. Note: Read our comprehensive Substack investigation covering the connection between Epstein’s child sex trafficking ring and intelligence agency sexual blackmail operations. For more along these lines, read our concise summaries of news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex trafficking ring . Jeffrey Epstein victim Virginia Giuffre — who killed herself at her Australian home — once declared, ‘In no way, shape or form am I suicidal’ 2025-04-26, New York Post Posted: 2025-05-09 15:02:57 read on nypost.com Virginia Giuffre — who killed herself at her home in Western Australia — once sternly warned she would never commit suicide. The Jeffrey Epstein victim turned whistleblower made the statement in a post on X in 2019, replying to another user who claimed the “F.B.I. will kill her to protect the ultra rich and well connected.” “I am making it publicly known that in no way, shape or form am I suicidal,” she wrote. “I have made this known to my therapist and GP – If something happens to me – in the sake of my family do not let this go away and help me to protect them. Too many evil people want to see me [quieted].” The old tweet was resurfaced on X and shared by well-known conservatives including including House Republicans Nancy Mace and Marjorie Taylor Greene. The ... suicide came just weeks after she made headlines for saying she had “ four days to live ” following a collision with a bus. The bus driver later disputed Giuffre’s claim about the seriousness of the incident. Giuffre took legal action against billionaire financier and convicted pedophile Epstein in 2015, alleging she was sex trafficked at 16 after ... Ghislaine Maxwell recruited her from her job as a locker room attendant at President Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort. She also alleged she was forced to have sex with disgraced Prince Andrew three times when she was 17 — including at Epstein’s Little St. James island, in New Mexico and in Maxwell’s London home. Note: Could it be that there's more to this story than a tragic suicide? Read our comprehensive Substack investigation covering the connection between Epstein’s child sex trafficking ring and intelligence agency sexual blackmail operations. For more along these lines, read our concise summaries of news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex trafficking ring . Epstein Files Unsealed: Prince Andrew Accused of Groping Woman's Breast, and More Names and Allegations 2024-01-03, AOL Posted: 2025-04-01 19:38:42 read on aol.com A woman who says she was a victim of deceased convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein alleged in a 2016 deposition that Prince Andrew groped her breast at Epstein's home in New York City in 2001, according to court filings. The large cache of documents stem from a 2015 lawsuit filed by Virginia Giuffre. The documents included a deposition from Epstein accuser Johanna Sjoberg, who said Prince Andrew placed his hand on her breast while posing for a group photo with Giuffre, Epstein, [Ghislaine] Maxwell and a puppet bearing Andrew's likeness. &quot;They told us to go get on the couch and so Andrew and Virginia sat on the couch,&quot; Sjoberg recalled during her deposition. &quot; They put the puppet, the puppet on her lap. And so then I sat on Andrew's lap. They took the puppet's hands and put it on Virginia's breast, and so Andrew put his on mine .&quot; A motion filed in the case in 2014, on behalf of an alleged victim of Epstein's identified only as Jane Doe #3, claimed that Jane Doe #3 &quot;was forced to have sexual relations with [Prince Andrew] when she was a minor in three separate geographical locations.&quot; Giuffre herself has alleged she was trafficked by Epstein and forced to have sex with Prince Andrew. Another person named in the documents was former Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz. The motion filed on behalf of Jane Doe #3 claims &quot;Epstein forced then-minor Jane Doe #3 to have sexual relations with former Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz, a close friend of Epstein’s.&quot; Note: For more along these lines, read our concise summaries of news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex and blackmail ring . Ex-JPMorgan banker claims Jeffrey Epstein knew more about ‘upper levels’ of bank than he did 2025-03-11, New York Post Posted: 2025-04-01 19:37:08 read on nypost.com An ex-JPMorgan Chase executive testified in London court that Jeffrey Epstein knew more about what was going on at the top levels of the bank than he did. Jes Staley — who went on to become chief executive of Barclays following his stint at JPMorgan — claimed that Epstein, the convicted child sex offender and disgraced financier who died in prison in 2019, had a “remarkable ability” to gather Wall Street intel. “Mr. Epstein was also well connected within the upper levels of JPMorgan itself,” Staley said during his second day in the witness box as he appealed a proposed ban and $2.3 million fine from London’s financial regulatory agency . “He seemed to be aware of things relating to the bank, that I was not aware of,” Staley added. Staley – who is attempting to overturn a lifetime ban that the Financial Conduct Authority announced in 2023 – acknowledged his relationship with Epstein went beyond work. In 2000, JPMorgan’s then-chief executive Douglas “Sandy” Warner told Staley he should get to know Epstein, Staley claimed in his witness statement. “Sandy Warner recommended that I should become acquainted with Mr. Epstein because he was an exceptionally well connected man who could help me, in my capacity at JPM, to form business relationships with influential and other well connected individuals,” he said. Staley claimed he was not the only high-level figure at JPMorgan in touch with Epstein. Note: For more along these lines, read our concise summaries of news articles on financial system corruption and Jeffrey Epstein's child sex and blackmail ring . Wyden releases findings on financier’s ties to Jeffrey Epstein, asks Trump admin for docs 2025-03-12, Yahoo News Posted: 2025-04-01 19:35:34 read on yahoo.com Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) is releasing new information on a financier’s ties to Jeffrey Epstein’s operations, the ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee announced. Since 2022, the committee has been investigating billionaire financier Leon Black — who co-founded and previously led asset management firm Apollo Global Management as CEO and has made payments to Epstein. Wyden is calling on the Department of Justice, the Treasury and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to “lift the veil” on financial support for Epstein. Wyden sent a letter to the federal agencies, providing the new findings from the committee’s investigation, which is looking into payments of at least $158 million from Black to Epstein for “purported tax and estate planning advice.” Wyden says the investigation led to new evidence through federal government records that show funds from Black to Epstein were used to finance Epstein’s sex trafficking operations . The Finance Committee also obtained a 2023 settlement agreement between Black and the Attorney General of the U.S. Virgin Islands. Under the $62 million settlement, Black gained immunity from criminal prosecution in the USVI for financially supporting Epstein, according to Wyden, noting the settlement acknowledges “Jeffrey Epstein used the money Black paid him to partially fund his operations.” A major U.S. bank waited seven years to report Black’s payments to Epstein to the Treasury Department. Note: For more along these lines, read our concise summaries of news articles on financial system corruption and Jeffrey Epstein's child sex and blackmail ring . Anna Paulina Luna to lead task force on declassification of JFK assassination records, Epstein client list 2025-02-11, Yahoo News Posted: 2025-02-20 22:35:56 read on yahoo.com Rep. Anna Paulina Luna, R-Fla., will lead a new task force focused on the declassification of federal secrets – including records related to the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, Sen. Robert F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and other documents in the public interest. House Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer, R-Ky., appointed Luna to chair the &quot;Task Force on the Declassification of Federal Secrets.&quot; Comer and Luna sent letters to the State Department, Department of Energy and the CIA for documents relating to the origins of COVID-19; the National Security Agency and CIA for records relating to JFK, MLK and RFK assassinations; the Department of Defense and the CIA for 9/11 files; and to the Justice Department for documents relating to Jeffrey Epstein. The creation of the task force comes after President Donald Trump signed an executive order telling the director of national intelligence ... to present a plan for the full and complete release of all JFK assassination records within 15 days. He also ordered that officials immediately review the records relating to RFK and MLK assassinations and present a plan for their full and complete release within 45 days. &quot;We have spent years seeking information on the assassinations of President Kennedy, Senator Kennedy, Reverend King, and other government secrets without success,&quot; Luna told Fox News Digital. &quot;It is time to give Americans the answers they deserve.&quot; Note: Read our comprehensive Substack investigations covering the dark truths behind the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr and the connection between Epstein’s child sex trafficking ring and intelligence agency sexual blackmail operations. Andrew emails show contact with Epstein lasted beyond 2010 2025-01-31, BBC News Posted: 2025-02-20 22:24:58 read on bbc.com The Duke of York was in contact with the US sex offender Jeffrey Epstein longer than he had previously admitted, emails published in court documents appear to show. &quot;Keep in close touch and we'll play some more soon!!!!&quot; said an email sent to Epstein from a &quot;member of the British Royal Family&quot;, believed to be Prince Andrew. The court documents, from the UK's Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), show the email as being sent in February 2011. In his BBC Newsnight interview, Prince Andrew had said he had not seen or spoken to Epstein after going to his house in New York in December 2010 . Prince Andrew is believed to have first met Epstein in 1999, through Epstein's friend Ghislaine Maxwell. The following year, in June 2000, Epstein and Maxwell were among guests at a party at Windsor Castle. Later that year, Prince Andrew held a birthday party for Maxwell at Sandringham, with Epstein in attendance. The relationship appeared to continue, with Epstein attending another Windsor Castle party in July 2006. Between those times, in 2008, Epstein was convicted in the US for procuring a minor for prostitution and was sentenced to 18 months in prison. After Epstein left prison, Prince Andrew met him in New York in 2010. Andrew said this meeting was to end their relationship. In July 2019, Epstein was arrested on charges of the sex trafficking of minors. He died in prison. In November that year, Prince Andrew ... stepped down from royal duties. Note: For more along these lines, read our concise summaries of news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex trafficking ring . We Tracked Every Visitor to Epstein Island 2024-11-22, Yahoo News Posted: 2024-12-31 19:23:48 read on yahoo.com In 2024 WIRED conducted an investigation uncovering the data of mobile devices belonging to almost 200 of his visitors. How strong was the data? So precise that we followed visitor's movements to and from Epstein Island to within centimeters—tracking their countries, neighborhoods, and even buildings of origin. These digital trails document the numerous trips of wealthy and influential individuals seemingly undeterred by Epstein's status as a convicted sex offender. Little St. James is a private island that is part of the U.S. Virgin Islands, an unincorporated territory of the United States in the Caribbean Sea. Epstein purchased little St. James in 1998 for $7.95 million. It's about 71 acres, the size of 54 football fields. He made the island his primary residence and soon after began welcoming visitors and throwing infamous parties where he was accused of having groomed, sexually assaulted, and trafficked untold numbers of women and girls. The tracking of phones wasn't contained to Little St. James surveillance continued long after the visitors left. The Near Intelligence data we uncovered pinpoints 166 locations throughout the United States and 80 cities across 26 states . Topping the list were Florida, Massachusetts, Texas, Michigan, and New York. Many of the visitors were likely wealthy, as indicated by coordinates pointing to gated communities in Michigan, as well as homes in Martha's Vineyard, and Nantucket in Massachusetts. Note: Read about the connection between Epstein’s child sex trafficking ring and intelligence agency sexual blackmail operations. For more along these lines, read our concise summaries of news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's trafficking and blackmail ring . Bank of America Flagged Suspicious Payments to Epstein Only After He Died 2024-12-13, New York Times Posted: 2024-12-31 19:22:11 read on nytimes.com When Bank of America alerted financial regulators in 2020 to potentially suspicious payments from Leon Black, the billionaire investor, to Jeffrey Epstein, the disgraced financier, the bank was following a routine practice. The bank filed two “suspicious activity reports,” or SARs, which are meant to alert law enforcement to potential criminal activities like money laundering, terrorism financing or sex trafficking. One was filed in February 2020 and the other eight months later, according to a congressional memorandum. SARs are expected to be filed within 60 days of a bank spotting a questionable transaction. But the warnings in this case ... were not filed until several years after the payments, totaling $170 million, had been made. By the time of the first filing, Mr. Epstein had already been dead for six months. The delayed filings have led congressional investigators to question if Bank of America violated federal laws against money laundering. Bank of America is not the only big bank to have been questioned about suspicious transactions involving Mr. Epstein. In litigation involving hundreds of Mr. Epstein’s sexual abuse victims, it was disclosed that JPMorgan Chase had filed several SARs after the bank kicked him out as a client in 2013 . Deutsche Bank, which subsequently became Mr. Epstein’s primary banker, paid a $150 million fine to New York bank regulators, in part because of its due diligence failures in monitoring Mr. Epstein’s financial affairs. Note: Read about the connection between Epstein’s child sex trafficking ring and intelligence agency sexual blackmail operations. For more along these lines, read our concise summaries of news articles on financial industry corruption and Jeffrey Epstein's trafficking and blackmail ring . Florida prosecutors knew Epstein raped teenage girls 2 years before cutting deal, transcript shows 2024-07-01, CNN News Posted: 2024-07-11 14:52:42 read on cnn.com Florida prosecutors heard graphic testimony about how the late millionaire and financier Jeffrey Epstein sexually assaulted teenage girls two years before they cut a plea deal, according to transcripts released Monday of the 2006 grand jury investigation. Epstein’s ties to the rich and the powerful seems to have allowed him to continue to rape and sex traffic teenagers. Transcripts show that the grand jury heard testimony that Epstein, who was then in his 40s, had raped teenage girls as young as 14 at his Palm Beach mansion . The teenagers testified and told detectives they were also paid to find him more girls. After the grand jury investigation, Epstein cut a deal with South Florida federal prosecutors in 2008 that allowed him to escape more severe federal charges and instead plead guilty to state charges of procuring a person under 18 for prostitution and solicitation of prostitution. He was sentenced to one and a half years in the Palm Beach County jail system, followed by a year of house arrest. He was required to register as a sex offender. According to the transcripts, Palm Beach Police Det. Joe Recarey testified in July 2006 that the initial investigation began when a woman reported in March 2005 that her stepdaughter who was in high school at the time said she received $300 in exchange for “sexual activity with a man in Palm Beach,” Recarey testified. Another teenager ... told detectives that she was 17 years old when she was approached by a friend who said she could make $200 by providing a massage at Epstein’s home. Epstein told her that he would pay her if she brought other “girls” to his home. “And he told her, ‘The younger, the better,’” Recarey said. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein list: New documents reveal paedophile’s responses to sex trafficking claims 2024-01-14, The Independent (One of the UK's Leading Newspapers) Posted: 2024-02-12 19:27:40 read on independent.co.uk Over the past week thousands of pages of court documents relating to late paedophile Jeffrey Epstein, have been made public after US judge Loretta Preska ordered the release of filings in a lawsuit brought by Virginia Giuffre against Ghislaine Maxwell. The documents named scores of prominent figures including, Prince Andrew, Bill Clinton, Donald Trump and Victoria’s Secret boss Les Wexner. Being identified through the court documents does not mean that the individual was involved in or aware of any wrongdoing by Epstein. The final batch of documents, released on Tuesday, included depositions from Ms Giuffre, Maxwell and Epstein. In Epstein’s deposition, he was questioned about his campaign of abuse of young and underage girls. He pleaded the Fifth over 1,000 times . In Maxwell’s deposition, she was confronted with disturbing messages left for Epstein – one of which referenced what appeared to be code for procuring an underage Russian girl for Epstein. “She is two times eight years old. Not blond. Lessons are free and you can have your first today if you call,” it read. Note: Read about the new evidence suggesting Epstein ran a sex blackmail operation for intelligence agencies. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Internal Prison Files Suggest Epstein ‘Suicide’ Coverup 2024-02-04, ScheerPost Posted: 2024-02-12 19:25:06 read on scheerpost.com Internal US Bureau of Prison (BOP) documents obtained by The Grayzone under Freedom of Information laws raise extremely serious questions about whether Jeffrey Epstein’s alleged first suicide attempt on July 23, 2019 in fact happened, and suggest the Bureau distorted evidence to attribute his death to suicide before his autopsy had even been completed. Officially, Epstein was found to have died in his cell at New York City’s Metropolitan Correctional Center on August 10, 2019, with a medical examiner ruling at the time that he had taken his own life by hanging. The ruling was aggressively contested by Epstein’s associates and widely disbelieved. Epstein’s legal team publicly declared available evidence on his death was “far more consistent” with murder. On August 9 ... regular checks on [Epstein] ceased. Three CCTV cameras nearby apparently malfunctioned. Two on-duty guards fabricated records to hide how they allegedly flouted their legal duties to surf the internet. And the next day, the prison’s most infamous inmate was dead . In the immediate wake of Epstein’s death ... BOP suicide prevention coordinator Robert Nagle visited the Metropolitan Correctional Center to initiate a “psychological reconstruction” of Epstein’s last moments. His resultant report recorded that a video of the “significant incident” was confiscated by the FBI before his review began. He was also prohibited from conducting formal interviews with prison staff. Note: Many questions remain unanswered regarding Epstein's death. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein and prison system corruption from reliable major media sources. Epstein documents allege sex tapes of Bill Clinton, Prince Andrew and Richard Branson 2024-01-09, The Independent (One of the UK's Leading Newspapers) Posted: 2024-01-15 18:48:13 read on independent.co.uk Newly unsealed Jeffrey Epstein documents have described bombshell allegations about sex tapes involving Bill Clinton, Prince Andrew and Richard Branson. In emails sent by Epstein victim Sarah Ransome – sections of which were included as exhibits in one of the filings unsealed on Monday – she said that an unnamed friend “had sexual intercourse with Clinton, Prince Andrew and Richard Branson” and that these encounters had been filmed by Epstein and that she herself had later seen the sex tapes. In the messages, Ms Ransome said that her friend later came forward to report what happened “with Epstein, Clinton, Branson and Prince Andrew” to the police in 2008 but said that “nothing was done” and “she was made to feel like a dirty whore and a liar”. A couple of months later, her friend was allegedly “approached by Special Agents Forces Men sent directly by Hilary [sic] Clinton herself, in order to protect her presidential campaign in 2008”, Ms Ransome claimed. Ms Ransome went on to allege that the friend was given a “substantial” payout directly from the Clinton Foundation “to keep her quiet”. She alleged that if her friend was to break the agreement to stay quiet, “she is dead”. The woman also allegedly tried to sue Epstein for damages but was “severely bullied and threatened” by his attorney, Mr Dershowitz – a man who she claimed “she also had sexual relations with and who was also heavily involved in Epstein’s paedophile ring”. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein Ran Sex Blackmail Operation For Intelligence Agencies, New Evidence Suggests 2024-01-04, Public on Substack Posted: 2024-01-15 18:46:04 read on public.substack.com While nobody has offered hard evidence that intelligence agencies, and in particular the CIA or Mossad, were directly involved in Epstein and [Ghislaine] Maxwell's blackmailing of public figures, many of the journalists who investigated the Epstein case have concluded that they were running what is known in the intelligence community as a “honeypot” or “honeytrap” aimed at using sex to blackmail people. The current director of the Central Intelligence Agency, William Burns, had scheduled three meetings with Epstein in 2014. Epstein's private calendar showed that he had dozens of meetings with Kathryn Ruemmler, a former White House counsel under President Barack Obama. Meetings with many other wealthy, well-connected individuals occurred years after Epstein became a convicted sex offender. Reporter Vicky Ward ... wrote a story about the Justice Department's 2007 “ non-prosecution agreement ” with Epstein. Alexander Acosta was the U.S. Attorney for South Florida who arranged the lenient sentence. “I was told Epstein 'belonged to intelligence' and to leave it alone,&quot; Acosta said. In addition to his possible ties to American intelligence, Epstein may have also been connected to the Israeli Mossad. A former Israeli spy, Ari Ben-Menashe, said he was Robert Maxwell's “handler” and claimed to have introduced Epstein to Mossad. “They were agents of the Israeli Intelligence Services,” said Ben-Menashe. The CIA has a long record of using sexual blackmail. In 1975, the Washington Post reported that for years, the CIA had “operated love traps in New York City and San Francisco, where foreign diplomats were lured by prostitutes in the pay of the CIA ...Through hidden one-way mirrors, CIA agents filmed the sexual adventures and later tried to blackmail the victims into becoming informants.&quot; Note: Read more about former Israeli spy Ari Ben-Menashe's claims that Epstein was running a sexual blackmail operation on behalf of Israeli military intelligence . For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein and intelligence agency corruption from reliable major media sources. Court documents reveal names of powerful men allegedly linked to Jeffrey Epstein 2024-01-04, NPR Posted: 2024-01-08 21:03:47 read on npr.org Court documents made public on Wednesday disclosed the names of dozens of powerful men with alleged connections to convicted sex-trafficker Jeffrey Epstein who died by suicide in 2019. Federal Judge Loretta Preska in Manhattan unsealed the documents, revealing the names of numerous individuals described in a 2015 civil lawsuit as associates, affiliates or victims of Epstein. The documents include references to former Presidents Bill Clinton and Donald Trump, the magician David Copperfield, Prince Andrew, former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak, actor Kevin Spacey, lawyer Alan Dershowitz, the late New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson and former Vice President Al Gore, among others . The fact that people were named in these documents doesn't mean any of them face allegations or evidence of wrongdoing. Federal prosecutors say Epstein — who worked for decades as a private financier for a secretive list of wealthy clients — also operated an underage sex-trafficking ring based in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Florida. Epstein allegedly developed a scheme to identify and exploit &quot;dozens&quot; of vulnerable girls and young women, some as young as 14 years old, beginning around 1994 and continuing at least until 2004. Some of his victims later claimed in civil lawsuits that Epstein instructed them to have sex with a who's-who of powerful men. Authorities in Florida first investigated Epstein for alleged sexual activity involving minors as early as 2005. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. 4 Biggest Revelations in the Jeffrey Epstein Docs 2024-01-05, Rolling Stone Posted: 2024-01-08 21:01:22 read on rollingstone.com Hundreds of pages of sealed records related to Jeffrey Epstein were made public on Wednesday, revealing previously unknown details about the late accused sex trafficker. Previously, the documents had been part of Epstein accuser Virginia Giuffre’s 2015 civil case against Ghislaine Maxwell. (Maxwell was convicted of sex trafficking in 2022 and is currently serving a 20-year sentence. Epstein was facing 45 years in prison for his alleged crimes, but he was found hanged in his Manhattan prison cell in August 2019.) Bill Clinton was friends with Epstein for years, and he was widely speculated to be one of the high-profile figures who would appear in the documents. In a transcript of a deposition given by Epstein accuser Johanna Sjoberg, she said Epstein once told her that Clinton “likes them young, referring to girls.” In February 2022, Prince Andrew reached a settlement with Giuffre over accusations that he’d sexually abused her numerous times when she was still a minor. He denied the allegations, but was officially stripped of his royal and military titles. Alan Dershowitz, Epstein’s former attorney who helped him clinch the 2008 “sweetheart deal” in which he avoided prosecution for sex crimes against minors, also plays a big role in the unsealed documents. According to testimony from Epstein’s former household staff, Dershowitz visited Epstein’s Florida home “very often,” allegedly going there by himself and spending time “in the presence of young girls.” Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. JPMorgan allegedly processed more than $1bn for Epstein over 16 years 2023-08-31, The Guardian (One of the UK's Leading Newspapers) Posted: 2023-09-10 20:50:15 read on theguardian.com JPMorgan Chase told US authorities it processed more than $1bn for Jeffrey Epstein over 16 years. JPMorgan reported the transactions as suspicious to the US treasury department following Epstein’s suicide in 2019, Mimi Liu, a lawyer for the territory, said at a hearing concerning its lawsuit against the largest US bank. Epstein had been a JPMorgan client from 1998 to 2013, when the bank dropped him. The disgraced financier had been awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges at the time of his death. The US Virgin Islands, where Epstein owned two private islands, is suing JPMorgan for at least $190m and likely much more, saying it ignored red flags that Epstein was running a sex-trafficking operation because he was a lucrative client. Liu mentioned the $1bn amount, which had not been previously disclosed, in arguing that the US district judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan should find before the case goes to trial that the bank participated in Epstein’s sex trafficking. She said no reasonable juror could find that JPMorgan was in the dark about its jet-setting client. “JPMorgan was a full service bank for Jeffrey Epstein’s sex trafficking,” Liu said . Felicia Ellsworth, a lawyer for JPMorgan, said it was not appropriate for the judge to determine the question of the bank’s knowledge before trial because current and former employees have testified that they were unaware of Epstein’s sex trafficking. In June, Rakoff preliminarily approved JPMorgan’s $290m settlement with women who say Epstein abused them. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on financial system corruption and Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. JPMorgan to Pay $290 Million in Settlement With Epstein's Victims 2023-06-12, New York Times Posted: 2023-06-26 19:02:43 read on nytimes.com JPMorgan Chase reached a tentative settlement with sexual abuse victims of Jeffrey Epstein, the deceased financier, after weeks of embarrassing disclosures about the bank's longstanding relationship with him. David Boies, one of the lead lawyers for the victims, said the bank was prepared to pay $290 million to resolve the lawsuit. The proposed deal would settle a lawsuit filed ... on behalf of victims who were sexually abused by Mr. Epstein over a roughly 15-year period when they were teenage girls and young women. The number of victims could potentially rise to more than 100. JPMorgan still faces a related lawsuit by the government of the U.S. Virgin Islands. That suit remains the biggest outstanding Epstein-related case after years of lawsuits against Mr. Epstein's estate and Ghislaine Maxwell's conviction in 2021 in Manhattan federal court for helping Mr. Epstein engage in sex trafficking. The lawsuit filed by the victims claimed that JPMorgan ignored repeated warnings that Mr. Epstein had been trafficking teenage girls and young women for sex, even after he registered as a sex offender and pleaded guilty in a 2008 Florida case to soliciting prostitution from a teenage girl. The complaint said the bank had overlooked red flags in Mr. Epstein's activity because it valued him as a wealthy client who had access to dozens of even wealthier people. Legal documents revealed that after designating Mr. Epstein a &quot;high risk client&quot; in 2006, the bank kept him on as a customer . Note: One Nation Under Blackmail is a new book by Whitney Webb, an investigative journalist who explores the deep ties between Jeffrey Epstein and US and Israeli Intelligence criminal networks. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. The long shadow of Jeffrey Epstein forces a reckoning between JPMorgan and the US Virgin Islands 2023-06-12, The Independent (One of the UK's Leading Newspapers) Posted: 2023-06-26 19:00:57 read on independent.co.uk In 1998, Jeffrey Epstein purchased Little Saint James in the US Virgin Islands and began trafficking girls as young as 14 into &quot;sexual servitude&quot; at the secluded island. The same year, he opened his first account with JPMorgan Chase, the start of a lucrative partnership for the Wall Street giant that would continue for years after the late financier had been &quot;red flagged&quot; by the bank as a child sex offender. To keep his illicit sex-trafficking scheme running, Epstein needed access to large amounts of cash to pay off recruiters and attempt to silence victims. JPMorgan is alleged to have &quot;pulled the levers&quot; through which Epstein paid his network of enablers, according to a lawsuit filed by the US Virgin Islands (USVI) Attorney General in a US court . The lawsuit claims that JPMorgan concealed wire and cash transactions that were part of a &quot;criminal enterprise&quot; whose currency was vulnerable and desperate women and girls, groomed and recruited over decades by Epstein and his chief lieutenant Ghislaine Maxwell. In separate lawsuits, several survivors of Epstein's abuse sued JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank accusing them of actively enabling his abuse. The sprawling US Virgin Islands legal action is still pending. It has already drawn in some of the world's wealthiest individuals including billionaire JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon, Tesla CEO and Twitter owner Elon Musk, Google's co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates. All have denied any involvement in Epstein's offending. Note: One Nation Under Blackmail is a new book by Whitney Webb, an investigative journalist who explores the deep ties between Jeffrey Epstein and US and Israeli Intelligence criminal networks. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. JPMorgan’s Ties to Jeffrey Epstein Were Deeper Than the Bank Has Acknowledged 2023-04-21, Wall Street Journal Posted: 2023-05-08 12:14:37 read on wsj.com JPMorgan Chase & Co. had ties to Jeffrey Epstein that ran deeper than the bank has acknowledged and extended years beyond when it decided to close the convicted sex offender’s accounts. Mary Erdoes, a top lieutenant to Chief Executive Jamie Dimon, made two trips to Epstein’s townhouse on Manhattan’s Upper East Side, in 2011 and 2013, when Epstein still was a client of the bank, said the people familiar with the matter. She exchanged dozens of emails with him and discussed sharing with him fees related to a charitable fund the bank was considering launching. John Duffy, who ran JPMorgan’s U.S. private bank for the ultrarich, went to Epstein’s townhouse for a meeting in April 2013, the people said. One month later, the private bank renewed an authorization allowing Epstein to borrow money against his accounts despite repeated warnings from compliance staffers about his unusual banking practices. Justin Nelson, one of Epstein’s bankers at JPMorgan, had about a half-dozen meetings at Epstein’s townhouse between 2014 and 2017. He also traveled to Epstein’s ranch in New Mexico in 2016. Epstein was convicted of soliciting a minor for prostitution in 2008 and forced to register as a sex offender. The new details show that JPMorgan was treating Epstein like a star client after his first conviction and despite repeated warnings from its own employees. And after JPMorgan closed Epstein’s accounts, bankers kept meeting with him for years. Note: One Nation Under Blackmail is a new book by Whitney Webb, an investigative journalist who explores the deep ties between Jeffrey Epstein and US and Israeli Intelligence criminal networks. Epstein had many concerning associations, including with Noam Chomsky as reported in Webb's most recent article . For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on banking corruption and Jeffrey Epstein's crime ring from reliable major media sources. US Virgin Islands subpoenas four top businessmen in Epstein banking inquiry 2023-04-01, The Guardian (One of the UK's Leading Newspapers) Posted: 2023-04-10 13:14:28 read on theguardian.com A US Virgin Islands investigations into the sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein’s ties to an American bank issued subpoenas to four wealthy business leaders on Friday, extending its reach into the highest echelons of tech, hospitality and finance. The subpoenas issued to the Google co-founder Sergey Brin, Hyatt Hotels chairperson Thomas Pritzker, American-Canadian businessman Mortimer Zuckerman and former CAA talent agency chairperson Michael Ovitz are crafted to gather more information about Epstein’s relationship with JPMorgan Chase . The Virgin Islands’ lawsuit against JP Morgan, the world’s largest bank in terms of assets, alleges that the institution “facilitated and concealed wire and cash transactions that raised suspicion of – and were in fact part of – a criminal enterprise whose currency was the sexual servitude of dozens of women and girls in and beyond the Virgin Islands”. “Human trafficking was the principal business of the accounts Epstein maintained at JP Morgan,” it said. The disgraced financier ... owned two private islands – Little Saint James, or “Epstein Island”, and Great Saint James – in the American territory, and authorities there have secured a $105m settlement from his estate. The demand for any communications and documents related to the bank and Epstein from four of the wealthiest people in the US comes days after it was reported that Jamie Dimon, JP Morgan’s chairperson and chief executive, is expected to be deposed in the case. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex trafficking ring from reliable major media sources. Sam Bankman-Fried’s Lawyers Are Veterans of Ghislaine Maxwell and ‘El Chapo’ Cases 2023-01-09, Wall Street Journal Posted: 2023-01-29 20:58:34 read on wsj.com A pair of attorneys defending FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried against one of the biggest white-collar prosecutions in decades are veterans of high-profile cases, including ones involving drug lord “El Chapo” and disgraced socialite Ghislaine Maxwell . Mark Cohen and Christian Everdell, former federal prosecutors who are now partners in the New York-based boutique firm Cohen & Gresser ... are up against hard-charging Justice Department lawyers who moved quickly to indict Mr. Bankman-Fried after FTX’s collapse and secured two of his former top lieutenants as cooperating witnesses. The Manhattan U.S. attorney’s office this past month charged Mr. Bankman-Fried with stealing billions of dollars from FTX customers while misleading investors and lenders connected to his crypto-trading firm Alameda Research. He faces charges of fraud, conspiracy, money laundering and campaign-finance violations and pleaded not guilty last week. Messrs. Cohen, 59 years old, and Everdell, 48, have already navigated their client through a thorny extradition from the Bahamas, where Mr. Bankman-Fried had been jailed after the Justice Department requested that local police arrest him. The two lawyers worked with local counsel to secure his transfer to U.S. custody while negotiating with federal prosecutors his pretrial release under a $250 million bond. They are now tasked with combing through voluminous and technical discovery, including documents relating to FTX investors, debtors and political campaigns. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on financial industry corruption from reliable major media sources. Tensions with Virgin Islands governor over Epstein led to attorney general’s firing 2023-01-06, New York Times Posted: 2023-01-16 12:48:59 read on nytimes.com The former attorney general for the Virgin Islands, who recently secured a $105 million settlement from the estate of Jeffrey Epstein, was recently fired following months of friction between her and the U.S. territory’s governor over the handling of the investigation into the disgraced financier, according to people briefed on the matter. Denise N. George, the former official, was dismissed by Albert Bryan Jr., the governor of the Virgin Islands, on New Year’s Eve, four days after her office sued JPMorgan Chase in federal court in Manhattan for its dealings with Mr. Epstein, who died of an apparent suicide in 2019 while in federal custody. The timing of Ms. George’s firing fueled media speculation in the Virgin Islands and beyond that the suit against JPMorgan was the immediate cause. In late December, Ms. George’s office sued JPMorgan in federal court in Manhattan, claiming that bank was derelict in providing banking services to Mr. Epstein during the time he was charged with sexually abusing teenage girls and young women at Little St. James and elsewhere in the U.S. The lawsuit accused JPMorgan of facilitating and concealing wire and cash transactions that should have raised suspicions that Mr. Epstein was engaging in the sexual trafficking of teen girls and young women. The lawsuit contends the bank essentially turned a “blind eye” to Mr. Epstein’s conduct because it was profitable . JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets, was Mr. Epstein’s primary banker from the late 1990s to 2013. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on banking corruption and Jeffrey Epstein's sex trafficking ring from reliable major media sources. Epstein's sex trafficking was aided by JPMorgan, a U.S. Virgin Islands lawsuit says 2022-12-30, NPR Posted: 2023-01-09 14:31:37 read on npr.org The government of the U.S. Virgin Islands alleges in a lawsuit filed this week that JPMorgan Chase &quot;turned a blind eye&quot; to evidence that disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein used the bank to facilitate sex-trafficking activities on Little St. James, the private island he owned in the territory until his 2019 suicide. In a more than 100-page complaint filed by U.S.V.I. Attorney General Denise George in the Southern District of New York in Manhattan on Tuesday, the territory alleges that JPMorgan failed to report Epstein's suspicious activities and provided the financier with services reserved for high-wealth clients after his 2008 conviction for soliciting a minor for prostitution in Palm Beach, Fla. The complaint says the territory's Department of Justice investigation &quot;revealed that JP Morgan knowingly, negligently, and unlawfully provided and pulled the levers through which recruiters and victims were paid and was indispensable to the operation and concealment of the Epstein trafficking enterprise.&quot; It accused the bank of ignoring evidence for &quot;more than a decade because of Epstein's own financial footprint, and because of the deals and clients that Epstein brought and promised to bring to the bank.&quot; &quot; These decisions were advocated and approved at the senior levels of JP Morgan,&quot; it said. The bank allegedly &quot;facilitated and concealed wire and cash transactions that raised suspicion of — and were in fact part of — a criminal enterprise whose currency was the sexual servitude of dozens of women and girls,&quot; according to the complaint . Note: Just days after filing the lawsuit against JP Morgan Chase, the district attorney of US Virgin Islands was fired . For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's sex trafficking ring from reliable major media sources. The Troubling Story Behind Hulu's New Documentary Victoria's Secret: Angels and Demons 2022-07-19, Time Magazine Posted: 2022-09-13 02:58:18 read on time.com While Epstein’s ties to former presidents Bill Clinton and Donald Trump, as well as Prince Andrew and Bill Gates, have been well publicized, his connection with [Les] Wexner flew under the radar until Epstein’s 2019 arrest on sex trafficking and conspiracy charges. For nearly two decades, Epstein was Wexner’s personal money manager, but few people understood just how close the two were. The Ohio-born Leslie “Les” Wexner is the billionaire founder of L Brands Inc., the one-time parent company of The Limited, Bath & Body Works, Abercrombie & Fitch, and Victoria’s Secret, the crown jewel of his retail holdings. Epstein was named the billionaire’s power of attorney in 1991, which gave Epstein “unmitigated control over all of [Wexner’s] assets,” according to Washington Post reporter Sarah Ellison. He could sign checks, buy and sell property, and borrow money on Wexner’s behalf. “There wasn’t a part of Wexner’s empire that Epstein didn’t have access to and didn’t have some ability to control,” Ellison says in the docuseries. Anti-trafficking advocate Conchita Sarnoff makes the case that Epstein was able to “legally bring girls from all over the world into the United States under the guise of modeling thanks to his position as Wexner’s financial advisor. The documentary details a culture of complicity at Victoria’s Secret, which allowed Epstein to hide in plain sight with Wexner's help. For years, Wexner managed to keep his relationship with Epstein hidden from public view, but now people are looking for answers. Note: Watch an eye-opening video on the top 10 shocking reveals of this Hulu documentary. For more along these lines, see the timeline of Epstein's case. You can also explore major cover-ups in high places in deeply revealing news articles on sexual abuse scandals from reliable major media sources. 'Victoria's Secret: Angels and Demons' weaves together Jeffrey Epstein and corporate culture 2022-07-14, CNN Posted: 2022-09-13 02:56:25 read on cnn.com &quot;Victoria's Secret: Angels and Demons&quot; [is a] fairly standard look at Wexner's business acumen in acquiring the lingerie outfit and transforming it into a multi-billion-dollar enterprise, inspiring cultish devotion among employees while facing ever-escalating pressure to make the marketing more provocative. Yet Wexner's success also brought Epstein into his orbit, eventually leading to allegations that the latter leveraged his affiliation with the company as part of his predatory behavior. As for what Wexner might have known, the executive (who declined to be interviewed for the docuseries) and his representatives staunchly denied any awareness. The hardest-to-explain aspect of the story involve Wexner granting Epstein power of attorney over his assets. With so many projects devoted to the Epstein scandal, including docuseries from Investigation Discovery and Netflix, the emphasis on his role, while understandable, feels like well-trodden territory. Indeed, it tends to obscure insights having to do with Wexner's retail strategy and its broader implications -- turning something as mundane as underwear into a premium item, manufacturing in China to slash costs and from a cultural perspective, feeding unrealistic expectations about women's bodies with heavily photoshopped catalogue spreads. In the final chapter, however, director Matt Tyrnauer deftly weaves the pieces together, conveying how the key men behind Victoria's Secret were blind to the changes sweeping over society while allegedly engaging in their own questionable behavior. Note : Watch an eye-opening video on the top 10 shocking reveals of this Hulu documentary. For more along these lines, see the timeline of Epstein's case. You can also explore major cover-ups in high places in deeply revealing news articles on sexual abuse scandals from reliable major media sources. Victoria’s Secret: Angels and Demons review – the lingerie chain’s links to Jeffrey Epstein must be explained 2022-07-15, The Guardian (One of the UK's leading newspapers) Posted: 2022-08-29 14:47:08 read on theguardian.com The new documentary-exposé Victoria’s Secret: Angels and Demons [reveals] that the multibillion-dollar lingerie chain that marketed its models as the last word in hotness and glamour was a ruthless capitalist enterprise dogged by accusations of harassment, corruption and abuse. We meet old friends from the modern sexual abuse and violence documentary circuit. Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell, of course, but also Jean-Luc Brunel, whose predations against the girls and women he met as the head of Karin Models Agency and MC2 Model Management (financed, would you believe, by Epstein) were recently outlined in Sky documentary Scouting for Girls – alongside those of fellow agents John Casablancas, Claude Haddad and Gérald Marie, the last of whom vehemently denies all sexual abuse allegations against him from several women. The new guy in the mix is Leslie Wexner, owner of the eponymous lingerie firm. He became acquainted with Epstein in the 1980s when Wexner needed an entré into New York society. It was Wexner who sold him the townhouse that would become infamous as the spycam site of his abusive operations, and who sold him the private jet that would become known as the “Lolita Express” as it ferried underage girls wherever Epstein and his fellow predators needed them to go . Wexner gave Epstein power of attorney over his entire estate – worth hundreds of millions of dollars – and didn’t revoke it until 2007, well after Epstein’s first arrest in 2006. Note: Watch an eye-opening video on the top 10 shocking reveals of this documentary. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. New Hulu documentary reveals dark discoveries about Victoria’s Secret 2022-08-16, San Francisco Chronicle (San Francisco's leading newspaper) Posted: 2022-08-29 14:45:25 read on sfgate.com For decades, mallgoers, slightly confused teenage girls and horny teenage boys have wondered what secret this mysterious Victoria is hiding. The new three-part Hulu docuseries “Victoria’s Secret: Angels and Demons” explores these secrets and, well, they are less “she only wears thongs (wink)” and more “wait, was this brand just a lot of pink thongs covering up the very real exploitation of underage girls?” The business was sold to Les Wexner [in 1982]. With Victoria’s Secret in about 100 stores across America, Les Wexner hired Jeffrey Epstein as an investment advisor. Then Wexner quite suddenly gave him power of attorney in 1991, the most expensive home in New York City in the mid-’90s and sold Epstein his private jet well below market value. That private jet became known in the press as the Lolita Express, aka the jet where Epstein is accused of taking underage girls to be abused and exploited. Epstein allegedly began describing himself to women he’d meet as a recruiter for Victoria’s Secret models in 1993. Wexner claims he cut all ties with Epstein after his first arrest, and he would go on to publicly condemn Epstein after his death in 2019, but the documentary alleges that L Brands directly paid for Epstein’s legal defense, which was never publicly reported. There [was] a reported instance where Epstein, while staying in the guest house on Wexner’s property, held a woman hostage for 12 hours after he and Ghislaine Maxwell allegedly assaulted her, leading her to call the police for help . Note: Watch an eye-opening video on the top 10 shocking reveals of this documentary. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. While Guilty for Sex Trafficking, Ghislaine Maxwell Takes Fall for Alleged Sexual Blackmail Operation Run by Western Intelligence Agencies 2022-07-14, Covert Action Magazine Posted: 2022-08-08 18:00:08 read on covertactionmagazine.com On June 28, Ghislaine Maxwell was sentenced to 20 years in prison for conspiring with Jeffrey Epstein to recruit, groom and abuse underage girls. In Maxwell’s defense, lawyer Bobbi C. Sternheim said that Ms. Maxwell’s life had been clouded by two men: “her narcissistic, brutish father” Robert Maxwell, wealthy British media tycoon and former member of parliament, and “the controlling, demanding, manipulative” Jeffrey Epstein. What [Maxwell] could not say was that she was the one to take the fall for a sexual blackmail operation sponsored by Western intelligence agencies. That operation appears to have originated with her father Robert back in the 1980s. Ari Ben-Menashe, a former Israeli intelligence official, claimed to have seen Jeffrey Epstein in Robert’s office in the early 1980s. Robert was a long-time operative for Israeli intelligence. Ben-Menashe [said] that Epstein “was the simple idiot who was going around providing girls to all kinds of politicians in the United States. He was taking photos of politicians fucking fourteen year old girls. They would just blackmail people like this.” Maxwell ... claims she has copies of everything that Epstein had and a secret stash of pedophile sex tapes that could implicate the world’s most powerful and will try to use them to save herself . The flight logs from [Epstein's] Lolita Express reveal a “who’s who” of early 1990s high society, including ... lawyer Alan Dershowitz, conservative billionaire David Koch; and politicians such as Tony Blair. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on intelligence agency corruption and Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Prince Andrew stripped of military titles and charities amid sex abuse lawsuit 2022-01-14, CNN News Posted: 2022-01-31 13:39:55 read on cnn.com Britain's Prince Andrew has been stripped of his military titles and charities, Buckingham Palace announced on Thursday, a day after a judge ruled a sexual abuse civil lawsuit against the Queen's son could proceed. Andrew will also no longer use the style &quot;His Royal Highness&quot; in any official capacity, a royal source told CNN on Thursday. The source said the decision was &quot;widely discussed&quot; among the royal family. &quot;With The Queen's approval and agreement, the Duke of York's military affiliations and Royal patronages have been returned to The Queen. The Duke of York will continue not to undertake any public duties and is defending this case as a private citizen,&quot; the palace said in a statement. On Wednesday, a New York judged ruled against a motion by Andrew's legal team to dismiss a civil lawsuit brought against him by Virginia Giuffre, who alleges she was trafficked by disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein and forced to perform sex acts with the prince at the age of 17 . Andrew has vigorously denied those claims. Giuffre brought her case against Andrew under New York's Child Victims Act , a state law enacted in 2019 which expanded the statute of limitations in child sex abuse cases to give survivors more opportunities to seek justice. Giuffre says she was trafficked by Epstein and forced to have sex with his friends - including the prince - at a time when she was underage (17) in the US. She said the assaults happened in London, New York and the US Virgin Islands. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. Settlement between Epstein, Prince Andrew accuser now public 2022-01-04, San Francisco Chronicle/Associated Press Posted: 2022-01-10 00:38:21 read on sfgate.com A woman who says she was sexually trafficked to Britain’s Prince Andrew by Jeffrey Epstein accepted $500,000 in 2009 to settle her lawsuit against the American millionaire and anyone else “who could have been included as a potential defendant,” according to a court record unsealed Monday. The prince’s lawyers say that language should bar Virginia Giuffre from suing Andrew now, even though he wasn’t a party to the original settlement. The private 2009 legal deal resolved Giuffre's allegations that Epstein had hired her as a teenager to be a sexual servant at his estate in Palm Beach, Florida. Andrew was not named in that lawsuit, but Giuffre had alleged in it that Epstein had flown her around the world for sexual encounters with numerous men “including royalty, politicians, academicians, businessmen and/or professional and personal acquaintances.” Attorney David Boies, who represents Giuffre, said in a statement Monday that the language about protecting potential defendants in the settlement between his client and Epstein was “irrelevant” to the prince's lawsuit in part because the paragraph did not mention the prince and he didn't know about it. “He could not have been a ‘potential defendant’ in the settled case against Jeffrey Epstein both because he was not subject to jurisdiction in Florida and because the Florida case involved federal claims to which he was not a part,” Boies said. Giuffre sued the prince in August, saying he had sexually assaulted her multiple times in 2001 when she was 17. Note: Read an excellent article on the shocking origins of Jeffrey Epstein. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. BBC faces backlash after Dershowitz analyzes Maxwell case, despite accusation from alleged Epstein victim 2021-12-20, Washington Post Posted: 2022-01-10 00:36:28 read on washingtonpost.com The BBC says it is investigating how Alan Dershowitz was allowed on its airwaves to talk about the conviction of Ghislaine Maxwell without mentioning that the constitutional lawyer is implicated in the case and accused of having sex with an alleged victim of financier Jeffrey Epstein. Shortly after Maxwell was convicted Wednesday of sex-trafficking charges for assisting Epstein in abusing young girls, BBC News brought on Dershowitz to analyze the guilty verdict of Epstein’s longtime paramour. But the network failed to mention that Dershowitz not only previously served as Epstein’s attorney but that he is accused of having sex with Virginia Roberts Giuffre when she was as young as 16. Dershowitz has denied the allegations . Dershowitz used his time on the “BBC World News” to slam Giuffre for supposedly not being a credible witness in the Maxwell case — claims that went unchallenged by the show’s anchor. He also claimed the case from Giuffre against him and Britain’s Prince Andrew, who has also been accused of sexual assault and has denied the allegations, was somehow weakened after Maxwell’s guilty verdict. Giuffre has said that Epstein and Maxwell forced her to have sex with public figures, such as Dershowitz. She asserted to the Miami Herald and the New Yorker that she had sex with Dershowitz at least six times in Epstein’s various residences. In denying her claims, Dershowitz ... called Giuffre a “prostitute” and a “bad mother” to her children. Note: Read an excellent article on the shocking origins of Jeffrey Epstein. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. Ghislaine Maxwell convicted of helping Jeffrey Epstein sexually abuse teenage girls 2021-12-29, Boston Globe/Associated Press Posted: 2022-01-03 10:14:31 read on bostonglobe.com The British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell was convicted Wednesday of luring teenage girls to be sexually abused by the American millionaire Jeffrey Epstein. The verdict capped a monthlong trial featuring sordid accounts of the sexual exploitation of girls as young as 14, told by four women who described being abused as teens in the 1990s and early 2000s at Epstein’s palatial homes in Florida, New York and New Mexico. Jurors deliberated for five full days before finding Maxwell guilty of five of six counts. With the maximum prison terms for each charge ranging from five to 40 years in prison, Maxwell faces the likelihood of years behind bars — an outcome long sought by women who spent years fighting in civil courts to hold her accountable for her role in recruiting and grooming Epstein’s teenage victims and sometimes joining in the sexual abuse. During the trial, prosecutors called 24 witnesses to give jurors a picture of life inside Epstein’s homes. Pilots took the witness stand and dropped the names of luminaries — Britain’s Prince Andrew, Bill Clinton, Donald Trump — who flew on Epstein’s private jets . But the core of the prosecution was the testimony of four women who said they were victimized by Maxwell and Epstein at tender ages. They echoed one another in their descriptions of Maxwell’s behavior: She used charm and gifts to gain their trust, taking an interest in their adolescent challenges and giving them assurances that Epstein could use his wealth and connections to fulfill their dreams. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. Ghislaine Maxwell: Judge rules ‘sensational and impure’ evidence to be blocked from trial 2021-03-23, The Independent (One of the UK's leading newspapers) Posted: 2022-01-03 10:12:52 read on independent.co.uk A New York judge has granted a request by Ghislaine Maxwell’s legal team to redact segments from the case filed against her, claiming they would “serve to cater a ‘craving for that which is sensational and impure.’” US District Judge Alison J Nathan issued the ruling last week on redactions from portions of a transcript the government filed under seal that Ms Maxwell’s legal team had requested on the grounds of privacy concerns. The judge also granted redactions that prosecutors made when filing the transcript on the basis of protection of the “integrity of an ongoing criminal investigation and to protect third parties’ personal privacy interests.” “As a general matter, these interests are legitimate and provide a basis for overcoming the presumption of access,” the judge ruled. Judge Nathan denied Ms Maxwell’s objections to some of these redactions. The British socialite’s lawyers argued that “some of the information contained in the redactions has been made public by other means.” The judge wrote: “Though the Defendant contends that some of the information contained in the redactions is public, she furnishes no evidence to that effect”, adding that the privacy interests at stake “justify the limited and narrowly tailored redactions.” Ms Maxwell, a former confidante of disgraced financier and convicted sex abuser Jeffrey Epstein, was charged by the FBI last year with multiple counts of sex exploitation and abuse of minor girls. Note: Maxwell’s trial has now concluded . Why has this trial been given so little attention by the media? Explore an excellent Whitney Webb article revealing links to Maxwell and Israeli intelligence, and much more. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein believed he could make a deal with prosecutors by revealing the secrets of Donald Trump or Bill Clinton, a new book says 2021-10-16, Yahoo! News Posted: 2021-10-24 18:21:28 read on yahoo.com Jeffrey Epstein believed he could make a deal with prosecutors by revealing secrets about former presidents Bill Clinton and Donald Trump, according to a new book by Michael Wolff. The disgraced financier and convicted sex offender was arrested in July 2019 on sex trafficking charges, and died a month later in his jail cell. In his new book, &quot;Too Famous: The Rich, the Powerful, the Wishful, the Damned, the Notorious,&quot; Michael Wolff reveals Epstein's thinking in his final few months. According to the book, Epstein believed that The Justice Department had arrested him, under the instruction of then-President Donald Trump, because they wanted information on Bill Clinton, who had flown on his private jet multiple times . &quot;The White House, through the Justice Department, was looking to press a longtime Republican obsession ... and get Epstein to flip and reveal the sex secrets of Bill Clinton,&quot; Wolff wrote. Epstein also believed New York prosecutors who were investigating Trump's business affairs might have ordered his arrest to &quot;pressure him to flip on Trump,&quot; Wolff reportedly suggests in the book. Wolff revealed that months before Epstein's death, he visited the billionaire. During Wolff's visit, Steve Bannon reportedly called Epstein on the phone and told him that he had feared him during Donald Trump's presidential campaign because he thought the financier knew secrets about Trump. &quot;You were the only person I was afraid of during the campaign,&quot; Bannon told Epstein. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Epstein: Met to take no action after Prince Andrew review 2021-10-11, BBC News Posted: 2021-10-18 01:26:54 read on bbc.com The Metropolitan Police will not take any further action against the Duke of York following a review prompted by Jeffrey Epstein accuser Virginia Giuffre. Ms Giuffre is suing Prince Andrew in the US for allegedly sexually assaulting her when she was a teenager. Prince Andrew has consistently denied Ms Giuffre's allegations. A source close to the duke told PA Media it had &quot;come as no surprise&quot; the Met had decided to drop its probe. They added: &quot;Despite pressure from the media and claims of new evidence, the Met have concluded that the claims are not sufficient to warrant any further investigation. In August, the Met said it would review its decision not to investigate allegations connected to Epstein. Ms Giuffre, 38, claims she was sexually assaulted by the prince at three locations - London, New York and on Epstein's private island in the Caribbean. Her case claims Prince Andrew engaged in sexual acts without Ms Giuffre's consent, including when she was 17 . The Met also confirmed it had completed its review into allegations reported in June by broadcaster Channel 4 News that British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's former girlfriend, trafficked, groomed and abused women and girls in the UK. The force said it had &quot;reviewed information passed to us by a media organisation in June&quot; and decided that &quot;no further action will be taken&quot;. In August 2019, US financier Epstein was found dead in his cell in New York's Metropolitan Correctional Center. Note: Once again a major child sex abuse case, in this case that of Jeffrey Epstein, fades from public view with no action taken. This New York magazine report has a wealth of information on Jeffrey Epstein's very strange death. Explore a complex yet very informative timeline of Epstein and his relationship to the Mossad and much more. Many links are made here with verifiable information that the major media has failed to report. For more, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Long Before Divorce, Bill Gates Had Reputation for Questionable Behavior 2021-05-16, New York Times Posted: 2021-05-23 15:53:46 read on nytimes.com By the time Melinda French Gates decided to end her 27-year marriage, her husband was known globally as a software pioneer. But in some circles, Bill Gates had also developed a reputation for questionable conduct. On at least a few occasions, Mr. Gates pursued women who worked for him at Microsoft and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. And then there was Jeffrey Epstein, whom Mr. Gates got to know beginning in 2011 , three years after Mr. Epstein, who faced accusations of sex trafficking of girls, pleaded guilty to soliciting prostitution from a minor. Ms. French Gates had expressed discomfort with her husband spending time with the sex offender, but Mr. Gates continued doing so. So, in October 2019, when the relationship between Mr. Gates and Mr. Epstein burst into public view , Ms. French Gates was unhappy. She hired divorce lawyers, setting in motion a process that culminated this month with the announcement that their marriage was ending. Mr. Gates [and] Mr. Epstein ... spent time together on multiple occasions, flying on Mr. Epstein’s private jet and attending a late-night gathering at his Manhattan townhouse . “His lifestyle is very different and kind of intriguing although it would not work for me,” Mr. Gates emailed colleagues in 2011, after he first met Mr. Epstein. For years, Mr. Gates continued to go to dinners and meetings at Mr. Epstein’s home, where Mr. Epstein usually surrounded himself with young and attractive women. Note: Learn more in this Bloomberg article . For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. Ghislaine Maxwell asked ‘room full of underage girls’ to dance for Jeffrey Epstein 2021-01-28, The Independent (One of the UK's leading newspapers) Posted: 2021-03-07 21:46:27 read on independent.co.uk Ghislaine Maxwell reportedly asked a “room of underage girls” to dance for Jeffrey Epstein. Ms Maxwell, 58, was charged last summer with six counts of recruiting and grooming girls and young women to be sexually abused by both her and Epstein, her former business partner and boyfriend. On Wednesday, 112 legal documents totaling thousands of pages were made public in the US. The documents included redacted witness testimony accusing Ms Maxwell of preying on underage girls and forcing them to perform sexual favours for Epstein’s gratification . “Maxwell direct a room full of underage girls to kiss, dance, and touch one another in a sexual way for defendant and Epstein to watch,” the statement said. A separate witness claimed that Ms Maxwell recruited her from a school campus to have sex with Epstein, by initially informing her that she would be hired as a personal assistant. While another released document alleges that “ample evidence in this case establishes that not only did Defendant [Maxwell] recruit underage girls for massage and sexual activities with Epstein, but that she participated in calling the girls; getting other people to bring girls; talking to the girls; taking massages from and leaving messages about the girls; and scheduling the girls to come over”. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on the Jeffrey Epstein scandal from reliable major media sources. Ghislaine Maxwell ‘told reporter that Epstein had tapes of Trump and Clinton’ 2021-02-22, MSN News Posted: 2021-03-01 16:31:59 read on msn.com Ghislaine Maxwell reportedly told a journalist that Jeffrey Epstein recorded tapes of former presidents Donald Trump and Bill Clinton, who were former acquaintances of the disgraced sex offender. Ms Maxwell, who awaits trial on charges she assisted Epstein’s crimes in the 1990s, reportedly told a CBS “60 minutes” producer that she would not release tapes of Mr Trump without those of Mr Clinton before the 2016 presidential election. The apparent revelations were made by Ira Rosen, an ex-producer for the CBS show, who released a memoir called “Ticking Clock: Behind the Scenes at 60 Minutes,” which reveals details about his time on the award-winning programme. As reported by The Telegraph , Mr Rosen wrote that he was acting on a &quot;hunch&quot; that secret recordings of Epstein’s former acquaintances existed — although the theory was never confirmed, and no tapes have been forthcoming. Mr Rosen allegedly told Ms Maxwell: &quot;I want the tapes. I know he [Epstein] was videotaping everyone.&quot; Ms Maxwell was said to have ... &quot;pointed a finger” at Mr Rosen, who theorized that Epstein secretly recorded those who visited his properties in Florida and New York in the 1990s, which included the former presidents. Ms Maxwell reportedly told Mr Rosen: “I am the daughter of a press baron. I know the way you people think. If you do one side, you must do the other. If you get the tapes on Trump you have to do Clinton'.&quot; Mr Trump previously remarked that he met Ms Maxwell &quot;numerous times&quot; ... while Mr Clinton has previously said his friendship with Epstein ended before [he] was convicted. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. More Than 100 Accusers Seek Restitution From Jeffrey Epstein’s Estate 2020-12-08, New York Times Posted: 2020-12-13 20:39:38 read on nytimes.com The fund set up to compensate victims of Jeffrey Epstein’s sexual exploitation has already received more than 100 claims and paid out tens of millions of dollars. The fund will accept requests until the end of March, said Jordana Feldman, its administrator. So far, the fund has paid more than $30 million to accusers . The fund began taking claims in July, a little less than a year after Mr. Epstein, a financier, died in a Manhattan jail cell following his arrest on federal sex-trafficking charges. Because he had put his roughly $600 million fortune into a trust, there were concerns that it could take years for his victims to get any money back from his estate. But the estate’s executors agreed to establish the fund, allowing accusers — including those who had reached settlements with Mr. Epstein after his 2008 conviction on soliciting prostitution from an underage girl — to seek compensation. Spencer Kuvin, a Miami lawyer representing nine women who have submitted claims to the fund, said the settlement process appeared to be fair. Three of [his clients] received settlements from Mr. Epstein when they were teenagers, but had felt intimidated by him and his legal team. “This process is light-years different,” Mr. Kuvin said. Ms. Feldman said a person who received a settlement was normally barred from coming back for more money. But she said given the circumstances surrounding the earlier investigation of Mr. Epstein, it was important not to close the door on any victims. Note: No mention is made of the many prominent men who were served by Epstein’s girls. Why is no one investigating this? This New York magazine report has a wealth of information on Jeffrey Epstein's very strange death. Explore a complex yet very informative timeline of Epstein and his relationship to the Mossad and much more. Many links are made here with verifiable information that the major media has failed to report. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein Update: Read The Deposition That Ghislaine Maxwell Fought To Hide 2020-10-22, NPR Posted: 2020-11-01 23:04:23 read on npr.org Ghislaine Maxwell's answers to questions about the sex-trafficking operation she allegedly ran with the late Jeffrey Epstein were made public Thursday as a federal court released Maxwell's 2016 deposition. The transcript is finally being unsealed after a back-and-forth legal battle between Maxwell and Virginia Giuffre, who has accused Maxwell, Epstein and others of sexually abusing her when she was a minor. In it, Maxwell repeatedly denies &quot;recruiting&quot; girls for Epstein or taking part in orgies and other activities. Persistent allegations that Epstein sexually abused young women under the guise of receiving massages prompted an investigation by Palm Beach police in the early 2000s. Giuffre's attorney asked, &quot;Are you aware there were underage girls, 30 of them, in this police report that were assaulted by Jeffrey Epstein in the Palm Beach house during the time you are working there?&quot; In her reply, Maxwell said she couldn't testify about that, accusing one of Epstein's alleged victims of lying and saying that she spent only limited time at Epstein's house in 2004, the year in question. For years, accusations against Maxwell and Epstein were obscured by legal maneuvers — most famously, a controversial nonprosecution agreement Epstein reached in 2007 with federal prosecutors in Florida. That plea deal with then-U.S. Attorney Alex Acosta led to state charges against Epstein, but it also prevented him and any co-conspirators — including, allegedly, Maxwell — from being prosecuted in federal sex crimes in southern Florida. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein's sex trafficking ring from reliable major media sources. From royal jet-setter to disgraced socialite: the making of Ghislaine Maxwell 2020-07-04, The Telegraph (One of the UK's leading newspapers) Posted: 2020-08-10 16:20:03 read on telegraph.co.uk Back in the Nineties, socialite Ghislaine Maxwell was known in New York as the female Gatsby for her lavish entertaining. Today ... she is behind bars. The daughter of the disgraced media tycoon Robert Maxwell, Ghislaine was his ninth and ... his favourite. When her father died, his publishing empire collapsed after it was found that he had been pillaging the pension fund to prop up his businesses. However, a trust fund provided an income of £80,000 a year for Ghislaine. She lived the high life. Ghislaine was never more at home than with the super-rich, bumming a ride on Donald Trumps private jet and dating billionaire financier Jeffrey Epstein. Ghislaine was in love with Jeffrey the way she was in love with her father. Marriage didnt happen, but she was always by his side, choreographing his world. My job included hiring many people, she said in a court deposition. She admitted hiring masseuses as young as 17. A source close to Ghislaine said in [a] Vanity Fair article : When I asked what she thought of the under age girls, she looked at me and said, Theyre nothing, these girls. They are trash. She was driven to only respect high status and wealth. Things started to unravel for Ghislaine ... when under-age girls accused Epstein of paying them to perform sexual acts. Ghislaine fought to keep the court papers from [a] 2017 defamation case closed and failed. On August 9, the first batch was released. The following day, Epstein was found dead in jail, presumed suicide, and Ghislaine vanished. On Thursday, Maxwell was finally arrested and charged with six federal crimes. Note: Key Epstein witness Maria Farmer claimed in a highly revealing interview with crack reporter Whitney Webb that she was in the car with Ghislaine and Trump's ex-wife Ivana when they enticed young girls to come give a massage for large amounts of money. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. Judge Esther Salas Assigned to Epstein Deutsche Bank Case 4 Days Before Husband, Son Shot 2020-07-20, Newsweek Posted: 2020-07-26 22:06:06 read on newsweek.com The son of a federal judge was killed and her husband injured when a gunman opened fire at their family home in New Jersey on Sunday night . New Jersey U.S. District Court Judge Esther Salas' 20-year-old son Daniel Anderl was killed in the attack in North Brunswick, New Jersey, by a suspect dressed in a FedEx uniform. Salas was not injured in the shooting. North Brunswick Mayor Francis Womack told ABC News that Anderl died after being &quot;shot through the heart.&quot; Womack said Salas received threats &quot;from time to time&quot; in the past but she is not believed to have received any recently. On July 15, four days before the shooting, Salas was assigned to the ongoing lawsuit brought by Deutsche Bank investors who claim the company made false and misleading statements about its anti-money laundering policies. The suit also alleged the bank failed to properly monitor &quot;high-risk&quot; customers, including convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein . Salas was nominated by President Barack Obama and was confirmed in 2011 having previously served as a U.S. Magistrate Judge in New Jersey. Her most high-profile case in recent years was the sentencing of Real Housewives of New Jersey reality TV stars Teresa and Joe Giudice for financial fraud charges. Salas allowed the pair to serve their time consecutively so one could raise their four children while the other was in jail. Note: Media reports say the killer was Den Hollander, whose resume on his website states he once worked for Kroll Associates Russia. This Washington Post article states, &quot;The French equivalent of the FBI ... suspected that Kroll's Paris operation was a CIA front.&quot; This New Yorker article states Kroll &quot;has hired plenty of graduates of the C.I.A. and other secret services, such as M.I.6 and the Mossad.&quot; Is it just a coincidence these murder took place just days after Judge Salas was assigned to the Epstein case? Much more on this available here by crack reporter Whitney Webb. Deutsche Bank reaches $150m settlement linked to Jeffrey Epstein 2020-07-07, MSN News Posted: 2020-07-12 16:13:45 read on msn.com Deutsche Bank (DBK.DE) has agreed to pay $150m (119m) over compliance failings in part linked to dealings with Jeffrey Epstein . New Yorks Department of Financial Services said in a statement on Tuesday it had imposed the penalty on Deutsche Banks New York branch for significant compliance failures in connection with the Banks relationship with Jeffrey Epstein, the accused child sex trafficker who died in police custody last year. The penalty also covers anti-money laundering failings linked to Danske Bank Estonia and Middle Eastern bank FBME. Epstein, who is believed to have been a billionaire, became a client of Deutsche Banks in 2013, five years after he pleaded guilty to procuring for prostitution a girl below age 18 in Florida. Despite coverage of the settlement and subsequent allegations against Epstein, investigators found Deutsche Bank failed to properly monitor his account. Hundreds of transactions totalling millions of dollars that raised red flags were missed, the New York Department of Financial Services said . These included payments to Epsteins alleged co-conspirators, settlement payments with victims totalling $7m, payments to Russian models, payments for womens school tuition and expenses, and payments to numerous women with Eastern European surnames that were consistent with public allegations of prior wrongdoing. Repeated suspicious cash withdrawals by Epstein totally over $800,000 over four years also failed to raise concerns. Note: 60 Minutes Australia has produced an excellent segment on Jeffrey Epstein and his recently arrested sidekick Ghislaine Maxwell. How did Epstein get away with sexually abusing hundreds of teenage girls for decades? The government and multiple police departments knew what was happening, yet key officials in high positions of power protected him. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein and financial industry corruption from reliable major media sources. Former Friend Of Ghislaine Maxwell Says She Has 'Stash' Of Sex Tapes Showing Jeffrey Epstein And Others With Minors 2020-07-07, International Business Times Posted: 2020-07-12 16:11:40 read on ibtimes.com A former friend of Jeffrey Epstein confidante Ghislaine Maxwell said Tuesday she had a secret stash of tapes and photos allegedly showing Epstein engaging in sexual activity with various underage girls. The friend said they expect Maxwell to use the stash as her insurance policy to possibly avoid jail time . The friend, whose name has not been released, spoke with Daily Mail about the collection. Ghislaine has always been as cunning as they come. She wasn't going to be with Epstein all those years and not have some insurance, the friend said. The secret stash of sex tapes I believe Ghislaine has squirreled away could end up being her get out of jail card if the authorities are willing to trade. The friend said Epstein not only recorded everything he did, but also recorded several rich and powerful men who took advantage of his sick largesse. This gave Epstein something to hold over anyone else who partook in the alleged circle of trafficking and abuse between Florida and New York. Maxwell is accused of recruiting and grooming several victims of Epsteins alleged scheme since the early 1990s. Several victims, including Virginia Roberts Giuffre, said Maxwell would pay them to work at Epsteins homes in either New York or Florida when they were teenagers. The pair would then begin grooming the victims for sexual services, which would allegedly be offered to many of Epsteins associates and friends among the worlds elite. Note: For more on this story which was hardly reported in the US, see this informative article . This New York Post article is an exception. 60 Minutes Australia has produced an excellent segment on Jeffrey Epstein and his recently arrested sidekick Ghislaine Maxwell. How did Epstein get away with sexually abusing hundreds of teenage girls for decades? The government and multiple police departments knew what was happening, yet key officials in high positions of power protected him. Ghislaine Maxwell, Jeffrey Epstein's confidant, arrested in sex abuse probe 2020-07-02, NBC News Posted: 2020-07-05 19:46:26 read on nbcnews.com Federal authorities arrested Ghislaine Maxwell, the longtime confidant of Jeffrey Epstein, on Thursday in New Hampshire in connection with the late, accused sex trafficker . She was taken into custody at about 8:30 a.m. in Bedford, officials said, and hours later appeared, via video feed, before Magistrate Judge Andrea Johnstone in Concord. Johnstone ordered Maxwell, who did not enter a plea, to be sent to New York City and kept in federal custody there. Maxwell was charged with six counts for acts committed between 1994 and 1997 and then allegedly lying to investigators in 2016. Four counts are related to allegedly helping transport minors for sexual activity and two for perjury, according to the criminal complaint. &quot; Maxwell played a critical role in helping Epstein identify, befriend and groom minor victims for abuse,&quot; Acting U.S. Attorney Audrey Strauss [said]. &quot;In some cases, Maxwell participated in the abuse herself. Multiple young women have accused Maxwell ... of complicity in Epstein's alleged sex trafficking ring. They say she either recruited them directly or provided logistical support, like scheduling visits to Epstein's home. The abuse allegedly happened at Palm Beach, Florida; Santa Fe, New Mexico; and at Epstein's home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, officials said. &quot;Maxwell was the center of that sex trafficking ring. Now that the ring has been taken down, I know that I cant be hurt anymore,&quot; Epstein victim Jennifer Araoz said in a statement. Note: Watch the revealing documentary &quot; Who Killed Jeffrey Epstein? &quot; For more on Maxwell, see this CNN article . More on her famous connections can be found in this article . A probing 16-episode program has incredibly revealing interviews with dozens who worked directly with Epstein. Incredibly detailed, it reveals the huge blackmail operation, connections with Israel, and much more. This series goes where others have not dared go. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Inside Crime Novelist James Pattersons New Jeffrey Epstein Doc 2020-06-26, Rolling Stone Posted: 2020-07-05 19:44:47 read on rollingstone.com In 2016, famed crime novelist James Patterson and co-authors Tim Malloy and John Connolly published Filthy Rich: A Powerful Billionaire, the Sex Scandal that Undid Him . Patterson had heard about the story of the mysterious billionaire whod gotten a sweetheart deal after having been charged with sex with underage girls, and he couldnt believe what he was hearing. Yet after the book came out, laying out the breadth of Epsteins crimes and how a cadre of enablers and hangers-on enabled him for years, it got relatively little attention. By 2019, of course, that had obviously changed. The Miami Herald had published its bombshell investigation into the 13-month deal then-Florida attorney general Alexander Acosta had offered Epstein, allowing him to serve little hard jail time. A new Netflix series, Filthy Rich , based on Pattersons book, documents all of the lurid details familiar to those whove been following the story the Trump/Clinton connections, the bizarre relationship with British heiress and alleged procurer Ghislaine Maxwell. But it also includes heartbreaking interviews with the young women who say they were victimized by Epstein, adding humanity to the familiar tabloid story. &quot; Initially, people just didnt see this is as big a story as I thought it was,&quot; [said Patterson]. &quot;I just couldnt imagine anybody that is involved with news that wouldnt say, 'Oh my God, this is a story.' This is unbelievable to me. Imagine if somebody out in the middle of the county had been with 50 underage girls. I mean ... are you kidding me? &quot; Note: Watch the revealing documentary &quot; Who Killed Jeffrey Epstein ?&quot; A probing 16-episode program has incredibly revealing interviews with dozens who worked directly with Epstein. Incredibly detailed, it reveals the huge blackmail operation, connections with Israel, and much more. This series goes where others have not dared go. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein Hoped to Seed Human Race With His DNA 2019-07-31, New York Times Posted: 2020-07-05 19:42:05 read on nytimes.com Jeffrey E. Epstein, the wealthy financier who is accused of sex trafficking, had an unusual dream: He hoped to seed the human race with his DNA by impregnating women at his vast New Mexico ranch. Mr. Epstein over the years confided to scientists and others about his scheme ... although there is no evidence that it ever came to fruition. Mr. Epstein, who was charged in July with the sexual trafficking of girls as young as 14, was a serial illusionist : He lied about the identities of his clients, his wealth, his financial prowess, his personal achievements. But he managed to use connections and charisma to cultivate valuable relationships with business and political leaders. He used the same tactics to insinuate himself into an elite scientific community. Mr. Epstein attracted a glittering array of prominent scientists. They included the Nobel Prize-winning physicist Murray Gell-Mann, who discovered the quark; the theoretical physicist and best-selling author Stephen Hawking; the paleontologist and evolutionary biologist Stephen Jay Gould; Oliver Sacks, the neurologist and best-selling author; George M. Church, a molecular engineer who has worked to identify genes that could be altered to create superior humans; and the M.I.T. theoretical physicist Frank Wilczek, a Nobel laureate. The lure for some of the scientists was Mr. Epsteins money. He dangled financing for their pet projects. Some of the scientists said that the prospect of financing blinded them to the seriousness of his sexual transgressions . Note: A probing 16-episode program titled &quot;EPSTEIN: Devil in the Darkness&quot; has incredibly revealing interviews with dozens who worked directly with Epstein. Incredibly detailed, it reveals the huge blackmail operation, connections with Israel, and much more. This series goes where others have not dared go. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein and corruption in science from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein: International Moneyman of Mystery 2002-10-28, New York Magazine Posted: 2020-06-22 20:31:46 read on nymag.com Ever since [Bill Clinton's] late-September visit to Africa with Kevin Spacey and Chris Tucker on his new benefactors customized Boeing 727 the question of the day has been: Who in the world is Jeffrey Epstein? Its a life full of question marks. He comes with cash to burn, a fleet of airplanes, and a keen eye for the ladies. Epstein is said to run $15 billion for wealthy clients, yet aside from Limited founder Leslie Wexner, his client list is a closely held secret. Hes been linked to ... Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter of the mysteriously deceased media titan Robert Maxwell, yet he lives the life of a bachelor, logging 600 hours a year in his various planes. He owns what is said to be Manhattans largest private house yet runs his business from a 100-acre private island in St. Thomas. Most everyone on the Street has heard of him, but nobody seems to know what the hell he is up to. Which is just the way he likes it. He is an enthusiastic member of the Trilateral Commission and the Council on Foreign Relations. In 1982 ... he set up his own shop, J. Epstein and Co., ...which is where the mystery deepens. [He] immediately began collecting clients, [but only] those with $1 billionplus. From the get-go, his business was successful. But the conditions for investing with Epstein were steep: He would take total control of the billion dollars, charge a flat fee, and assume power of attorney to do whatever he thought was necessary to advance his clients financial cause. There are no analysts or portfolio managers, just twenty accountants to keep the wheels greased and a bevy of assistants many of them conspicuously attractive young women to organize his hectic life. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. Loaded Gun Found Smuggled Into Jail Where Jeffrey Epstein Killed Himself 2020-03-06, New York Times Posted: 2020-03-23 19:14:21 read on nytimes.com Federal investigators on Thursday found a loaded gun that had been smuggled into the Manhattan jail where the financier Jeffrey Epstein hanged himself last summer while awaiting trial on sex-trafficking charges, officials said . The discovery of the gun at the jail, the Metropolitan Correctional Center, came amid a weeklong lockdown that began with a tip that a firearm might have been introduced into the building, according to a statement from the federal Bureau of Prisons. The gun was found in one of the jails housing units, the bureau said. The Metropolitan Correctional Center and other federal prisons across the United States have been dealing with rising levels of violence and other safety problems, including an influx of contraband. The problems have coincided with a push by the Trump administration, in its quest to shrink the federal government, to curtail prison hiring, according to a 2018 investigation by The New York Times . In at least one prison, The Times found, people regularly walked up to the double security fence in broad daylight, and, with no guards in sight, tossed weapons, drugs, cellphones and other items to inmates. But a gun is a rare and unique threat. The lockdown and ensuing search were part of the continuing fallout stemming from the suicide of Mr. Epstein in August. Lawyers for Mr. Epstein have challenged the New York City medical examiners finding that his death was a suicide. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on prison system corruption and Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Judge demands answers from Jeffrey Epstein's estate after millions of dollars flood into his dormant offshore bank in the Virgin Islands in the months following the pedophile's death 2020-02-05, MSN News/ Daily Mail Posted: 2020-02-18 01:25:18 read on msn.com Millions of dollars that were sent from the estate of disgraced billionaire pedophile Jeffrey Epstein into a dormant bank he had opened in 2014 has raised questions from a judge overseeing a court case over his remaining assets. In court documents obtained yesterday regarding the billionaire's Virgin Islands assets, a judge found that in August last year, when Epstein was found hanged in his jail cell, the financier's bank in the territory ... had no more than $693,157. In December, Epstein's estate transferred $15.5 million to the bank. The bank sent back $2.6 million, leaving $12.9 million. There was then a withdrawal of almost all funds before the end of the year, leaving the balance at around $500,000. In January, a lawsuit filed by the US Virgin Islands posthumously accused Epstein of sexually abusing and trafficking hundreds of girls and young women on his private Caribbean island as recently as 2018 and had a database to keep track of their availability. The lawsuit, filed against the millionaire pedophile's estate last month claimed Epstein used his two private islands in the U.S. territory to engage in a nearly two-decade conspiracy to traffic and abuse girls as young as 11 or 12. Many of the victims were allegedly aspiring models from South America and he used fake modelling visas to fly them across international borders to his two islands - known as Little Saint James and Great Saint James - the lawsuit claims. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Epsteins alleged quadruple murderer cellmate: I tried to save him, not kill him 2020-01-22, Miami Herald Posted: 2020-02-04 02:09:46 read on miamiherald.com Jeffrey Epsteins name was uttered just once in the federal courtroom but his memory hovered like a cloud over Wednesdays hearing for an ex-cop who shared a cell with him on the day last July when the accused sex trafficker allegedly tried to kill himself. Nicholas Tartaglione faces a possible death penalty if convicted of the gangland-style killing of four men in a soured drug deal. He has become entangled in the Epstein saga because many found it curious that the most high-profile inmate in the nation would be kept in the same jail cell as an alleged quadruple killer. As Epsteins cellmate at the time of the July incident ... Tartaglione [is] requesting the surveillance video from outside the jail cell, to prove that he helped save Epstein during the financiers abortive suicide try. Defense lawyer Bruce Barket said video of the incident would back up Tartagliones story that he alerted guards to Epsteins plight. That fact could be used before a judge and jury. The problem is that the Bureau of Prisons says it no longer has the video. It was accidentally destroyed . The fact that the video is gone, which was reported earlier this month to great consternation, was yet another embarrassment for the Bureau of Prisons. Epstein died weeks later, on Aug. 10, in what was classified as a suicide by hanging, although some, including Epsteins brother, have suggested it could have been murder. By the time of his death, Epstein had no cellmate and was inexplicably no longer on suicide watch despite the earlier incident. Note: This New York magazine report has a wealth of information on Jeffrey Epstein's very strange death. Explore a complex yet very informative timeline of Epstein and his relationship to the Mossad and much more. Many links are made here with verifiable information that the major media has failed to report. A drone video also explores the island owned by Epstein and a strange &quot;temple&quot; found there. Lots more available here . For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Prince Andrew gives 'zero cooperation' over Epstein inquiry, US prosecutor says 2020-01-27, BBC News Posted: 2020-02-04 02:07:26 read on bbc.com The Duke of York has provided &quot;zero co-operation&quot; to an inquiry into late sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, the prosecutor in charge of the investigation has said. Prosecutors and the FBI have contacted his lawyers but have received no reply, said US attorney Geoffrey Berman. Prince Andrew says he did not see, or suspect, any suspicious behaviour when visiting homes of his then friend. Buckingham Palace said the prince's legal team was dealing with the issue. It said it would not be commenting further. Mr Berman, the US Attorney for the Southern District of New York, said the FBI and Southern District of New York had requested to interview the duke as part of their inquiry into Epstein's crimes, but &quot;to date, Prince Andrew has provided zero co-operation&quot; . Prince Andrew has come under fire for his friendship with the US financier, who was jailed in Florida in 2008 for procuring a minor for prostitution. He told BBC Newsnight in November that he first met Epstein in 1999 and did not regret their friendship - which led to Epstein attending events at Windsor Castle and Sandringham - because it had &quot;some seriously beneficial outcomes&quot;. Virginia Giuffre, one of Epstein's accusers, says she was trafficked to London by Epstein in 2001, when she was 17, and forced to have sex with Prince Andrew. Note: Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team titled &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Ghislaine Maxwell's secret emails hacked by cyber criminals in potential new blow for Prince Andrew 2020-01-22, The Telegraph (One of the UK's leading newspapers) Posted: 2020-02-04 02:05:29 read on telegraph.co.uk Ghislaine Maxwells private emails have been hacked by cyber criminals in a new twist in the scandal surrounding Prince Andrews friendship with a convicted paedophile. The British heiress was targeted after she was publicly accused of procuring young girls for Jeffrey Epstein, legal papers seen by The Telegraph reveal . The security breach raises the prospect that emails between Ms Maxwell and prominent individuals including the Duke of York could be made public, or sold to the highest bidder. Ms Maxwell has barely been seen in public since August, when the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit unsealed allegations that she conspired with Epstein to recruit and groom underage girls. Her US lawyers are currently battling the release of around 8,600 further documents from the same civil case, said to contain damaging new sex claims about Epsteins vast network of celebrity friends. In December it was revealed that Ms Maxwell exchanged emails with Prince Andrew in 2015 about Virginia Giuffre, who accuses the Duke of having sex with her three times when she was aged 17. He has always emphatically denied the allegations. A US judge will decide in the coming weeks whether to unseal the new evidence about Epsteins alleged crimes. The documents include depositions from 29 people, including a number of new witnesses and reportedly Epstein himself. The Duke of Yorks name appears in the evidence along with a number of prominent politicians and businessmen. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Surveillance video from Jeffrey Epstein's first apparent suicide attempt 'no longer exists' 2020-01-09, NBC News Posted: 2020-01-20 21:36:39 read on nbcnews.com The surveillance video taken from outside Jeffrey Epstein's jail cell on the day of his first apparent suicide attempt has been permanently deleted , federal prosecutors said. Epstein, the disgraced financier who was facing federal sex-trafficking charges, was found semiconscious in his cell at the Metropolitan Correctional Center, or MCC, in New York around 1:27 a.m. on July 23. But that video is now gone because MCC officials mistakenly saved video from a different floor of the federal detention facility. The FBI made the discovery last week while reviewing a copy of the video provided by MCC officials. &quot;After reviewing the video, it appeared to the government that the footage contained on the preserved video was for the correct date and time, but captured a different tier than the one where [the cell housing Epstein and his cellmate] was located. The filing was made in a case involving Nicholas Tartaglione ... who was Epstein's cellmate on the day of the incident. The July incident was investigated as a possible suicide attempt, assault or ruse by Epstein to get himself transferred to a different facility. Tartaglione's attorney, as part of an effort to exonerate his client, asked the jail to preserve video from outside the cell. The MCC agreed, but &quot;the MCC computer system listed a different, incorrect cell for Tartaglione,&quot; prosecutors said in the court filing. A backup video system was in place, but the requested video wasn't available because of unspecified &quot;technical errors,&quot; the court filing says . Note: Just a little bit suspicious... For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. 60 Minutes investigates the death of Jeffrey Epstein 2020-01-05, CBS News Posted: 2020-01-13 16:41:30 read on cbsnews.com In July 2019, Jeffrey Epstein, already a convicted sex offender, was arrested and charged with sex trafficking by federal prosecutors. On August 10, Epstein was found dead in his federal jail cell at Manhattan's Metropolitan Correctional Center (MCC). The New York City Medical Examiner's Office ruled Epstein's death a suicide by hanging, but a forensic pathologist who observed the four-hour autopsy ... tells 60 Minutes the evidence released so far points more to murder than suicide in his view. Dr. Michael Baden's key reason: the unusual fractures he saw in Epstein's neck.&quot;There were fractures of the left, the right thyroid cartilage and the left hyoid bone,&quot; Baden said. &quot;I have never seen three fractures like this in a suicidal hanging.&quot; The night before his death, Epstein's cellmate was released. According to court documents, &quot;no new cellmate was assigned&quot; before he died, even though he was required to have one. That night, federal prosecutors say, &quot;Epstein was escorted into his cell by Tova Noel at approximately 7:49 p.m.&quot; Noel and Michael Thomas, the two guards who were working the overnight shift in Epstein's unit, allegedly didn't check on him again until &quot;shortly after 6:30 a.m.&quot; the next morning. &quot; So Epstein's taken off suicide watch, the day before he kills himself, his roommate is removed from the cell. The cameras on his tier are not working. The guards fell asleep. It seems almost impossible to think all of those things could happen in that way,&quot; [60 Minutes correspondent Sharyn] Alfonsi said . Note: Not mentioned is that surveillance video from Epstein's first suicide attempt was &quot;accidentally&quot; erased, as reported on NBC News . A revealing five-minute 60 minutes video is available here or at the link above. More photos and information are available on this CBS News webpage . An even deeper analysis can be found on this webpage . For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. As prosecutors go after Epstein's alleged co-conspirators, the line between accomplice and victim may be blurred 2019-09-27, CNN News Posted: 2019-12-31 02:39:19 read on cnn.com After Jeffrey Epstein's death, federal prosecutors in Manhattan pledged to continue investigating his alleged sex-trafficking ring, suggesting they would pursue his co-conspirators. But ... prosecutors have struggled with the question of whether some of those alleged co-conspirators were themselves victims of Epstein. Atop the alleged pyramid of Epstein associates was his ex-girlfriend turned social companion, Ghislaine Maxwell, a contemporary of Epstein's. Allegedly reporting to her and to Epstein was a coterie of assistants in their early 20s, and prosecutors are examining whether their experience with the accused predator should categorize them as an accomplice or as one of the abused . According to police reports, civil lawsuits and other court filings, these women approached girls in various places including near their schools, offering them the opportunity to make money by giving what they described as massages to an older man. The starkest example appears to be Nadia Marcinkova, an Epstein assistant who is accused in civil lawsuits of having perpetrated abuse alongside Epstein, aiding him to &quot;satisfy his criminal sexual desires by, on occasion, directly participating in sexual abuse and prostitution of the minor girls,&quot; according to one of the lawsuits. One victim who alleged she was forced to have sex with Marcinkova told police Epstein bragged that he had &quot;purchased&quot; Marcinkova and brought her to the US to be his &quot;Yugoslavian sex slave.&quot; Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Prince Andrew email surfaces as American woman alleges &quot;disgusting&quot; sexual assault 2019-12-03, CBS News Posted: 2019-12-23 03:12:07 read on cbsnews.com Britain's royal family was reeling from yet another damning interview. This time it was an American woman who accuses the queen's son, Prince Andrew, of having sex with her when she was just 17 years old. Virginia Roberts Giuffre spoke out in the interview with the BBC about what she says the prince did to her, and what he may know about Jeffrey Epstein. The American woman described being forced to have sex with Prince Andrew, the Duke of York, three times while she was still a teenager . &quot;It didn't last very long. It was disgusting. He wasn't mean or anything, but he got up and he said, 'thanks,' and walked out,&quot; she told the BBC. Roberts Giuffre said she met Prince Andrew at properties owned by Epstein, the American financier and convicted sex offender who was found dead in his New York jail cell earlier this year. She said she was made to dance with the duke at a London nightclub. &quot;It was horrible, and this guy was sweating all over me, his sweat was like it was raining,&quot; she said. Last month Prince Andrew denied ever meeting Roberts Giuffre despite being photographed with her and claimed that due to a &quot;peculiar medical condition&quot; he was physically unable to sweat &quot;at the time.&quot; He did admit to spending time at Epstein's homes. Now, five more American women have said Prince Andrew witnessed abuse at Epstein's home. Meanwhile, an email has emerged this week ... that was sent by the prince in January 2015 to his long-time friend Ghislaine Maxwell... &quot;Let me know when we can talk. Got some specific questions to ask you about Virginia Roberts.&quot; Note: Watch powerful evidence in a suppressed Discovery Channel documentary showing that child sexual abuse rings reach to the highest levels of government.Then watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which also leads directly to the highest levels of government.For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epsteins Charity: An Image Boost Built on Deception 2019-11-26, New York Times Posted: 2019-12-23 03:08:22 read on nytimes.com Jeffrey Epsteins foundation looked for all the world like a charitable powerhouse: On its websites and in its press releases, the foundation was described as a patron of hospitals, universities and film festivals, run by a global philanthropist. The organization known by various names, but usually called the J. Epstein Virgin Islands Foundation wasnt officially a charity for much of its existence, having lost its tax-exempt status in 2008 ... the same year Mr. Epstein pleaded guilty to soliciting prostitution from a minor. In the years between that case and his suicide in August as he faced federal sex-trafficking charges, Mr. Epstein was unshackled from the rigorous financial disclosures that charities are supposed to file every year with the government allowing him to exaggerate his philanthropy as he sought to rebuild his reputation . The most glaring exaggeration appeared on Wikipedia. A user name apparently connected to Mr. Epstein edited the page for the foundation and put its annual outlay at $200 million a year. In reality, the foundation was worth a small fraction of that amount, according to documents obtained by The New York Times through a public records lawsuit in the Virgin Islands. Eighteen years of financial statements show that just under $20 million flowed into the foundation since it was founded in 2000. Roughly $16.6 million was spent on donations and grants; most of the rest paid unspecified general and administrative expenses and $1.5 million in interest for what appears to be an undisclosed debt. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein accuser says his house had cameras &quot;monitoring private moments&quot; 2019-11-18, CBS News Posted: 2019-12-16 03:03:11 read on cbsnews.com One of Jeffrey Epstein's accusers is providing chilling new insight into his alleged sex trafficking operation. Maria Farmer told &quot;CBS This Morning&quot; that Epstein sexually assaulted her more than 20 years ago. She is now suing the Epstein estate. In her first TV interview, Farmer alleges that Epstein had extensive surveillance inside his home, including tiny pinhole cameras. Farmer [said] that Epstein showed her cameras throughout his house. &quot;The main thing he did when I walked in, and I thought was interesting, he showed me where the cameras, the men monitoring everything, were. So, if you're facing the house, there's a window on the right that's barred. That's the media room, is what he called it. And so, there was a door that looked like an invisible door with all this limestone and everything. And you push it, and you go in. And I saw, all the cameras, it was, like, old televisions basically, like, stacked.&quot; &quot; They were monitors inside this cabinet. And there were men sitting here. And I looked on the cameras, and I saw toilet, toilet, bed, bed, toilet, bed. I'm like, 'I am never gonna use the restroom here and I'm never gonna sleep here,' you know what I mean? It was very obvious that they were, like, monitoring private moments .&quot; She believes there are tapes - the question is, who has them? Note: Watch powerful evidence in a suppressed Discovery Channel documentary showing that child sexual abuse rings reach to the highest levels of government.Then watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which also leads directly to the highest levels of government.For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Investigators scrutinizing video outside Epsteins cell find some footage unusable, according to people familiar with the inquiry 2019-08-26, Washington Post Posted: 2019-12-16 03:01:26 read on washingtonpost.com At least one camera in the hallway outside the cell where authorities say registered sex offender Jeffrey Epstein hanged himself earlier this month had footage that is unusable , although other, clearer footage was captured in the area. The incident is being investigated by the FBI and the Justice Departments inspector generals office, which are attempting to determine what happened and how to assess whether any policies were violated or crimes committed. The revelation of an unusable recording is yet another of the apparent failures inside the Metropolitan Correctional Center, the short-staffed Bureau of Prisons facility in downtown Manhattan that held Epstein. Meanwhile, there has been intense scrutiny of the federal facility where he was held, which did not follow its protocol in the handling of Epstein in several ways , officials have said. Epstein should have been checked on every 30 minutes. Investigators are exploring whether logs were falsified to indicate checks had occurred when they had not. Epstein also was supposed to have a roommate, following a July 23 incident in which he was found on the floor of his cell with marks on his neck. Authorities suspected he had attempted suicide; Epstein said he believed he had been attacked. He was placed on suicide watch for about a week after that. For a time, [he] had a new roommate. But that person was transferred ... and a new roommate was not assigned despite the fact that at least eight jail officials knew Epstein was not to be left alone in cell. Note: Watch powerful evidence in a suppressed Discovery Channel documentary showing that child sexual abuse rings reach to the highest levels of government.Then watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which also leads directly to the highest levels of government. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein and prison system corruption from reliable major media sources. Judge in Jeffrey Epstein case says jail death was unthinkable 2019-11-26, CNBC News Posted: 2019-12-09 22:53:12 read on cnbc.com The federal judge who oversaw Jeffrey Epsteins child sex trafficking case says it is unthinkable that any jail inmate let alone one with such a high profile as Epstein would die in custody, as the wealthy investor did this summer . Judge Richard Berman also is calling for reforms to be carried out in the U.S. prison system in light of Epsteins death in a Manhattan federal jail. Berman, in a letter to The New York Times , said the indictment last week of two guards there for allegedly covering up their failure to check on Epstein in his cell in the hours before he died Aug. 10 is not the full accounting to which Mr. Epsteins family, his alleged victims and the public are entitled. We all agree that it is unthinkable that any detainee, let alone a high-profile detainee like Mr. Epstein, would die unnoticed at the Metropolitan Correctional Center, Berman wrote in his letter to the Times . Berman added, There is at the very least anecdotal evidence that chronic understaffing, subpar living conditions, violence, gang activity, racial tension and the prevalence of drugs and contraband are the norms in many of our prisons. Federal prosecutors last week said that two M.C.C. guards, Michael Thomas and Tova Noel, failed to conduct scheduled head counts on all inmates in that special housing unit or do other required rounds for up to eight hours before Epstein was found dead. Instead, prosecutors charged, Thomas and Noel browsed the Internet, strolled around a common area in the unit and appeared to sleep for about two hours. Note: How is it that the lawyer defending some of Jeffrey Epstein's victims, David Boies, was also the lawyer defending convicted sexual offender Harvey Weinstein, as mentioned in this NY Times article ? Does it make sense for the lawyer of a major sex offender to be defending Epstein's victims? Is this a way for power elite to control the situation? For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein and prison system corruption from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein accuser Maria Farmer says Ghislaine Maxwell threatened her life, FBI &quot;failed&quot; her 2019-11-19, CBS News Posted: 2019-12-09 22:51:24 read on cbsnews.com Maria Farmer, who has accused Jeffrey Epstein and his friend Ghislaine Maxwell of assaulting her in 1996, said Maxwell threatened her life after the assault. Farmer ... was a young artist when she met Epstein and Maxwell at an art show in New York City in 1995. Epstein had bought one of Farmer's paintings ... and eventually offered her a job. The 26-year old soon found herself working the front desk in his palatial New York City townhouse. &quot; All day long. I saw Ghislaine going to get the women. She went to places like Central Park. I was with her a couple of times in the car ... She would say ,'Stop the car.' And she would dash out and get a child .&quot; Epstein ultimately led her to his bathroom. &quot;And there was a marble, like, altar thing over here, and he said that's where he gets his massages,&quot; Farmer said. Epstein told her the whole house was wired with pinhole cameras and took her into the media room where they were monitored. In the summer of 1996, Farmer said Epstein sent her to ... the vast estate of Les Wexner, the CEO of L Brands, which owns &quot;Victoria's Secret.&quot; Farmer alleges in her complaint that Maxwell and Epstein sexually assaulted her there. When she tried to flee the following day, she wasn't allowed to leave. She claims a member of Wexner's staff warned her. &quot;His exact words were: 'You're not going anywhere. You are never leaving,'&quot; she said. Farmer reported the assault to the FBI, but it wasn't for another decade, just before Epstein's first arrest in 2006, that an agent finally appeared at her door, she said. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein's 'madam' Ghislaine Maxwell is pictured just days after secretly meeting Prince Andrew at Buckingham Palace in June 2019-11-25, MSN News Posted: 2019-12-09 22:49:08 read on msn.com Pictures have emerged of Ghislaine Maxwell, the woman who introduced Prince Andrew and Jeffrey Epstein, just days after her most recent meeting with the beleaguered royal. Ms Maxwell, the woman accused of procuring underage girls for Epstein, was pictured hobnobbing at a high-class social event in Geneva on June 8. Just two days earlier, she had visited Prince Andrew at Buckingham Palace in what sources have claimed was a meeting to discuss the case against Epstein. Ms Maxwell, the daughter of disgraced newspaper tycoon Robert Maxwell, has gone off the radar since the scandal emerged. She denies being Epstein's 'madam'. Prince Andrew, 59, met up with Maxwell, 57, who is an old friend of his, on June 6 inside the Prince's private Palace quarters . She then set off on the Cash & Rocket charity motoring rally from London to Monaco. She was conspicuously absent from publicity photographs taken during the high-profile event, and all reference to her was later deleted from the rally's website. Maxwell's involvement in the rally is thought to be the last time she visited the UK, before her disappearance from public view amid the FBI inquiry into her links with Epstein. During his disastrous BBC interview last week, Andrew was asked when he last saw Ms Maxwell. 'It was earlier this year funnily enough, in the summer, in the spring, summer She was here doing some rally,' he replied. It was later reported she was one of five people who visited the Prince. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. After Disastrous Epstein Interview, Prince Andrew Steps Down From Public Duties 2019-11-20, New York Times Posted: 2019-11-24 18:57:47 read on nytimes.com Prince Andrew announced on Wednesday that he would step back from public life, seeking to contain a firestorm over his ties to the disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein. It has become clear to me over the past few days that my association with Jeffrey Epstein has become a major disruption to my familys work and the valuable work going on in the many organizations and charities that I am proud to support, Prince Andrew said in a statement. Therefore, I have asked Her Majesty if I can step back from public duties for the foreseeable future, and she has given her permission, said the prince, who is also known as the Duke of York. The duke, 59, had hoped that the interview , broadcast Saturday by the BBC, would put to rest lingering questions about his ties to Mr. Epstein, as well as accusations that he had sex with a teenage girl who had been supplied to him by his friend. Instead, after the duke submitted to 50 minutes of polite but relentless grilling by the BBC journalist Emily Maitlis, his unsavory association with Mr. Epstein ... mutated into a full-blown scandal. Viewers expressed shock and anger at Prince Andrews lack of sympathy for Mr. Epsteins victims, as well as his unpersuasive denials of sexual misconduct, which included peculiar assertions, such as that he has been medically unable to perspire since his combat tour in the Falklands War . In August ... Virginia Roberts Giuffre, accused the prince of having sex with her three times when she was 17 years old and had been offered to him by Mr. Epstein. Note: Prince Andrew is finding himself increasingly isolated because of comments he's made about Epstein. Explore an article in the UK's Telegraph titled &quot;Prince Andrew named in secret new evidence against Jeffrey Epstein.&quot; For more, see summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein . Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. Lady Colin Campbell says Jeffrey Epstein is NOT a paedophile during GMB row on Prince Andrew 2019-11-18, MSN News Posted: 2019-11-24 18:55:37 read on msn.com Lady Colin Campbell today said Jeffrey Epstein should not be called a paedophile during a panel discussion about Prince Andrew's BBC Newsnight interview. The royal biographer made the comments while discussing the Duke of York's interview, which aired on Saturday and in which he discussed his links to the disgraced financier. Host Piers Morgan was addressing the prince's visit to Epstein's home when Lady Colin Campbell interrupted to claim that the financier's convictions did not make him a paedophile. &quot;You all seem to have forgotten that Jeffrey Epstein, the offence with which he was charged and for which he was imprisoned, was 'soliciting prostitution from minors'. &quot;That is not the same thing as paedophilia,&quot; she said. The conversation turned heated as Morgan replied: &quot;Well, what would you call it? If you solicit a 14-year-old for prostitution then you're a paedophile.&quot; But Lady Campbell ... responded by claiming that the term 'minor' did not refer to a child. She was then corrected by the host . Morgan was referring to allegations that Epstein abused dozens of girls some as young as 14-years-old. Epstein, 66, died in jail on August 10 while facing sex trafficking charges of under-age girls, some as young as 14. He faced sex trafficking accusations in Florida in 2007 but signed a deal that year with prosecutors. The controversial arrangement allowed him to avoid federal charges and plead guilty to lesser state prostitution charges, for which he spent 13 months behind bars. Note: If the above link fails, this article is also available here . Prince Andrew is finding himself increasingly isolated because of comments he's made about Epstein. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein . Then watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. FBI probing if Jeffrey Epsteins death was the result of a criminal enterprise, prisons chief says 2019-11-19, CNBC News Posted: 2019-11-24 18:53:29 read on cnbc.com The FBI is investigating whether a criminal enterprise played a role in the controversial jailhouse death of well-connected sex criminal Jeffrey Epstein, the head of the federal prison system told a Senate committee Tuesday . But Bureau of Prisons Director Kathleen Hawk Sawyer also testified that there is no indication, from anything I know, that the wealthy investors demise on Aug. 10 was anything other than a suicide. At the time Epstein died, the former friend of Presidents Donald Trump and Bill Clinton was awaiting trial on child sex trafficking charges. Sawyers testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee came on the same day that two guards from a Manhattan jail operated by the BOP were criminally charged with falsifying official records to cover up the fact that they never conducted mandated safety checks on Epstein and other inmates in the hours before he was found unresponsive with a noose around his neck. The New York City medical examiners office has ruled Epsteins death was a suicide by hanging. But Dr. Michael Baden, a forensic pathologist hired by Epsteins brother, has said that the injuries found on Epsteins neck were more consistent with those found in homicides. During Tuesdays hearing, one senator underscored to the prisons boss how skeptical many people are about the official ruling that Epstein killed himself. Christmas ornaments, drywall and [Jeffrey] Epstein. Name three things that dont hang themselves, said Sen. John Kennedy, R-La. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Then watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. A Dead Cat, A Lawyer's Call And A 5-Figure Donation: How Media Fell Short On Epstein 2019-08-22, NPR Posted: 2019-11-24 18:50:37 read on npr.org A coterie of intimidating lawyers. A five-figure donation. Even, it is alleged, a cat's severed head in the front yard of the editor-in-chief of Vanity Fair . Such were the tools the disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein is said to have used to try to soften news coverage and at times stave off journalistic scrutiny altogether. Epstein killed himself, authorities say, in federal prison as he faced criminal charges alleging sex trafficking of underage girls , some as young as 14. And yet with a few notable exceptions, the national media infrequently covered Epstein's behavior and rarely looked at the associates who helped him evade accountability for his actions at least, not until the Miami Herald 's Julie K. Brown's investigative series late last year. &quot;We count on the press to uncover problems, not merely to report on when problems have been prosecuted,&quot; says David Boies, an attorney for several of Epstein's accusers. &quot;And here you had a terrible problem. A horrific series of abuses.&quot; Boies' firm helped file lawsuits in 2015 and 2017 for clients alleging that Epstein and his associates had sexually trafficked underage girls, at his various homes. The suits were publicly available documents but received little attention in the press. In some cases, Epstein successfully scared off some accusers and struck confidential settlements with others , making it harder for reporters to get them to recount their experiences on the record. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein and media manipulation . from reliable major media sources. Then watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. Jeffrey Epsteins alleged madam Ghislaine Maxwell was a guest at a Jeff Bezos-hosted retreat in 2018 2019-11-01, CNBC News Posted: 2019-11-24 18:48:28 read on cnbc.com The woman alleged to have been a procurer for accused child sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein was reportedly a guest in 2018 at an exclusive literary retreat hosted by Jeff Bezos, the CEO of Amazon. Vice.com, citing two sources, reported Friday that the woman, Ghislaine Maxwell, attended the Campfire retreat last year. One of those sources said that Maxwell had attended three such Campfire retreats hosted by Bezos and Amazon. Maxwell, 57, went to the 2018 iteration of the highly secretive retreat with Scott Borgerson, a tech-firm CEO. That visit would have occurred before Epsteins most recent arrest, in July of this year, on federal child sex trafficking charges. Maxwell, daughter of the late media tycoon and fraudster Robert Maxwell, has been accused by multiple women of acting as one of the procurers of girls and women for Epstein. One employee of Epsteins called Maxwell the lady of the house, referring to his mansion in Palm Beach, Florida. Some accusers have also said Maxwell at times participated with Epstein in abusing them sexually. In court documents released in August, a woman named Virginia Giuffre said Maxwell directed her as a teenager to have sex with Prince Andrew of Britain, former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, former New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson, hedge funder Glenn Dubin, late MIT scientist Marvin Minsky, modeling company founder Jean-Luc Brunel, the owner of a large hotel chain, and another prince. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Then watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. Ive had this story for three years: ABC News anchor slams her networks handling of Epstein scoop 2019-11-05, Washington Post Posted: 2019-11-19 01:29:01 read on washingtonpost.com Amy Robach of ABC News: I tried for three years to get it on, to no avail, and now its all coming out. And its like these new revelations and I freaking had all of it. I am so pissed right now. ... What we had was unreal. Those remarks come courtesy of James OKeefes Project Veritas . The unreal story [was] related to Jeffrey Epstein, the shadowy financier who died in prison in August of an apparent suicide as he awaited trial for sex trafficking conspiracy and sex trafficking . In August, NPRs David Folkenflik documented how three news outlets - Vanity Fair , the New York Times and ABC News - fell short in tugging on various strands of the Epstein story. ABC News managed to conduct an interview with Virginia Roberts Giuffre, who at the age of 17 had become part of Epsteins household. She has alleged that Epstein trafficked her to his friends, including Prince Andrew. I viewed the ABC interview as a potential game-changer, Giuffre wrote in an email to NPR. As it turns out, Robach also viewed the interview with Giuffre as a game-changer. Then the Palace found out that we had her whole allegations about Prince Andrew and threatened us in a million different ways, says Robach. We were so afraid we ... quashed the story. She told me everything. She had pictures, she had everything . She was in hiding for 12 years, we convinced her to come out. Robach also mentions ... Alan Dershowitz, who represented Epstein in 2008 and also stepped in as ABC News was working on the Giuffre-Epstein story. Note: Don't miss this most telling leaked video . For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein and media manipulation from reliable major media sources. Mainstream media largely ignores ABC's Epstein scandal; CNNs scant coverage is lampooned 2019-11-06, Fox News Posted: 2019-11-19 01:27:09 read on foxnews.com Mainstream media outlets have largely ignored the Project Veritas bombshell that ABC News killed a story that would have exposed the now-deceased sex offender Jeffrey Epstein three years ago. Fox News found no coverage on CNN, MSNBC, CBS News, or NBC News from noon through midnight ET on Tuesday while the story was lighting up social media . During that same time frame, Fox News covered the scandal on five different programs. Mainstream media essentially has an unspoken rule not to cover anything Project Veritas does, as the groups controversial founder, James O'Keefe, describes himself as a guerrilla journalist. But the ABC video has been verified by ... ABC itself as authentic, and has therefore created quite a conundrum for mainstream media. Project Veritas most recent project, before releasing ABC News anchor Amy Robach's explosive hot mic tape, was publishing undercover recordings made by a now-former CNN employee who secretly documented staffers criticizing the network . The recordings also captured CNN president Jeff Zucker telling top news executives to focus solely on the impeachment of President Trump, even at the expense of other important news. The traditional media surely do not like Project Veritas snooping around into their behind-the-scenes operations, but the Project Veritas videos of Amy Robach's and Jeff Zucker's comments do lend insight to the workings of these news organizations,&quot; [DePauw University professor and media critic Jeffrey] McCall said. Note: Don't miss this most telling leaked video . Listen also to a one-hour interview by Project Veritas of WantToKnow.info founder Fred Burks. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein and media manipulation . from reliable major media sources. ABC News Defends Its Epstein Coverage After Leaked Video Of Anchor 2019-11-05, NPR Posted: 2019-11-19 01:23:58 read on npr.org A newly surfaced video of an ABC News anchor's unguarded remarks about the network's coverage of the late Jeffrey Epstein has thrown ABC on the defensive. In a leaked video posted Tuesday by the right-wing activist group Project Veritas, news anchor Amy Robach expresses her frustration to a colleague over ABC's failure to broadcast her interview with a key accuser of Epstein. Robach complains that the network &quot;quashed&quot; her interview, suggesting that ABC had yielded to threats from powerful forces, including Buckingham Palace. Prince Andrew is among those men whom the accuser alleges Epstein trafficked her to for sex. Robach's comments in late August 2019 came just two days after an NPR story disclosed the existence of Giuffre's interview and ABC's failure to broadcast it. In the video, Robach is ... speaking remotely through her microphone with an unseen colleague. &quot; I've had the story for three years,&quot; Robach says in the video. &quot;We would not put it on the air. Um, first of all, I was told, 'Who was Jeffrey Epstein? No one knows who that is. This is a stupid story.' Then the palace found out that we had her whole allegations about Prince Andrew and threatened us a million different ways .&quot; Robach goes on to say that Giuffre alluded to others in the interview, including former President Bill Clinton, Harvard University law professor emeritus Alan Dershowitz and Epstein's former girlfriend, Ghislaine Maxwell. Giuffre has made similar accusations against all of them also in court documents. Note: Don't miss this most telling leaked video . Read also an article showing how a variety of independent news websites have condemned ABC and CBS over this matter. Meanwhile Newsweek has posted an article titled,&quot;'Epstein Didn't Kill Himself,' Former Navy Seal Blurts Out on Fox News.&quot; For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Epsteins Autopsy Points to Homicide, Pathologist Hired by Brother Claims 2019-10-30, New York Times Posted: 2019-11-19 01:22:08 read on nytimes.com A forensic pathologist hired by Jeffrey Epsteins brother disputed the official finding in the autopsy of his death, claiming on Wednesday that the evidence suggested that he did not take his own life but may have been strangled. The New York City medical examiners office concluded in August that Mr. Epstein had hanged himself in his jail cell while awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges. But the private pathologist, Dr. Michael Baden, said on the morning TV show Fox & Friends that Mr. Epstein, 66, experienced a number of injuries - among them a broken bone in his neck - that are extremely unusual in suicidal hangings and could occur much more commonly in homicidal strangulation . Dr. Baden, a former New York City medical examiner and a Fox News contributor, added, Ive not seen in 50 years where that occurred in a suicidal hanging case. The findings by Dr. Baden were strongly disputed by the citys chief medical examiner, Dr. Barbara Sampson. Dr. Baden said Mr. Epstein had three fractures in the hyoid bone, the thyroid cartilage. The autopsy also showed Mr. Epstein had several bones broken in his neck. The city medical examiner said Mr. Epsteins death was hanging and the manner was suicide. Before that determination was made public, an article in The Washington Post noted Mr. Epsteins injuries included a broken hyoid bone. Mr. Epsteins death led to several investigations into how a high-profile inmate apparently killed himself just weeks after he was placed on suicide watch. Note: Newsweek has also posted an article titled, &quot;'Epstein Didn't Kill Himself,' Former Navy Seal Blurts Out on Fox News.&quot; For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. 'Jeffrey Epstein didnt kill himself' meme pops up on MSNBC 2019-11-12, Fox News Posted: 2019-11-19 01:20:14 read on foxnews.com The sentence Jeffrey Epstein did not kill himself has emerged as a pop culture catchphrase popping up on TV and on memes across social media , sometimes creating awkward moments when people question the narrative surrounding the now-deceased sex offenders mysterious death. The statement was uttered by an attendee of last weekends University of Alabama-Louisiana State University football game when an MSNBC reporter inquired what students thought about President Trumps decision to attend the event. MSNBCs Monica Alba asked a student what he liked about the president but didnt receive the answer she expected. I would say mainly just the no-nonsense policies and especially since Jeffrey Epstein didnt kill himself, a student identified as Parker said on live television. New York City Medical Examiner officially listed Jeffrey Epsteins death as a suicide by hanging. However, everyone from forensic experts and social media sleuths to ABC News anchor Amy Robach have suggested there is more to the story. Robach said on an infamous hot mic video that was leaked to the media from within ABC News that she 100 percent thinks Epstein was actually murdered . He made his whole living blackmailing people. There [were] a lot of men in those planes, a lot of men who visited that island, lot of powerful men who came into that apartment, Robach said. &quot;I knew immediately.&quot; Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. ABC Killed Jeffrey Epstein Sex Trafficking Story Three Years Ago, News Anchor Amy Robach Caught on Camera Saying 2019-11-05, Newsweek Posted: 2019-11-12 00:52:28 read on newsweek.com ABC News' Amy Robach, best known as co-anchor of 20/20, claimed that ABC killed her story about convicted pedophile Jeffrey Epstein's sex trafficking of minors three years ago in sensational hot microphone footage leaked Tuesday. In the footage, reportedly taken in August and published online Tuesday by the right-wing activist group Project Veritas, Robach, 46, says: &quot;I've had this story for three years. I've had this interview with [Epstein accuser] Virginia Roberts. We would not put it on the air. First of all I was told, 'Who is Jeffrey Epstein? No one knows who that is. This is a stupid story.'&quot; &quot;Then the palace found out we had her whole allegations about Prince Andrew and threatened us in a million different ways ,&quot; Robach continues, referring to the British royal that Roberts alleged in a 2015 court filing Epstein trafficked her to when she was 17. &quot;[Roberts] told me everything,&quot; Robach says in the clip. &quot;She had pictures. She had everything. She was in hiding for 12 years. We convinced her to come out. We convinced her to talk to us. It was unbelievable what we had. Clinton. Everything.&quot; Epstein was arrested on federal charges of sex trafficking of minors and conspiracy to sex traffic minors in July. He was found dead in his New York prison cell in August. Epstein's death has been ruled suicide by hanging, however, Epstein's family believe he was murdered. A private pathologist hired by the Epstein estate said last week that Epstein's autopsy showed injuries more consistent with &quot;homicidal strangulation&quot; than suicide. Note: Watch the incredible interview of this revelation. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. CBS staffer fired over ABCs Epstein scandal speaks out: Im not the whistleblower the leaker is still inside 2019-11-08, Fox News Posted: 2019-11-11 21:42:10 read on foxnews.com A CBS News employee, fired after ABC executives informed CBS she'd had access to a leaked hot mic video that revealed the Disney-owned network killed a Jeffrey Epstein scoop, says she did not leak the tape and was unfairly axed without being able to defend herself. Ashley Bianco was a producer on ABCs Good Morning America before joining CBS This Morning last month. Earlier this week, the controversial group Project Veritas published the damning video in which ... anchor Amy Robach complained that her bosses killed a story that would have exposed the now-deceased child sex offender Epstein three years ago. Bianco said she was fired by CBS after the network received a call from ABC informing her new boss that she once had access to the leaked video. I did not&quot; leak the tape, Bianco told journalist Megyn Kelly in an interview posted Friday on YouTube. Im not the whistleblower. Im sorry to ABC, but the leaker is still inside. CBS News declined to comment on Bianco's claim. Bianco denied ever communicating with anyone from Project Veritas and said she simply made a clip of the video and saved it in ABC's internal system. I never heard of Project Veritas until this, she said. Bianco, who deleted various social media accounts before speaking out, said she did not inform her manager that she clipped it, but everyone in the office was freaked out by Robachs comments. Everyone was watching it, Bianco said, noting that the purpose for clipping it was to watch it back later for office gossip. Bianco told Kelly that she doesnt know who leaked the tape because everyone at ABC was aware it existed. Note: The silence of other most major media around this huge story is deafening. Watch an interview with the fired woman. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Bill Gates Met With Jeffrey Epstein Many Times, Despite His Past 2019-10-12, New York Times Posted: 2019-10-22 01:43:08 read on nytimes.com Jeffrey Epstein, the convicted sex offender who committed suicide in prison, managed to lure an astonishing array of rich, powerful and famous men into his orbit. Bill Gates ... started the relationship after Mr. Epstein was convicted of sex crimes. Beginning in 2011, Mr. Gates met with Mr. Epstein on numerous occasions including at least three times at Mr. Epsteins palatial Manhattan townhouse, and at least once staying late into the night . And Mr. Epstein spoke with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and JPMorgan Chase about a proposed multibillion-dollar charitable fund an arrangement that had the potential to generate enormous fees for Mr. Epstein. His lifestyle is very different and kind of intriguing although it would not work for me, Mr. Gates emailed colleagues in 2011, after his first get-together with Mr. Epstein. Mr. Gates and the $51 billion Gates Foundation have championed the well-being of young girls. By the time Mr. Gates and Mr. Epstein first met, Mr. Epstein had served jail time for soliciting prostitution from a minor and was required to register as a sex offender. In late 2011, at Mr. Gatess instruction, the foundation sent a team to Mr. Epsteins townhouse to have a preliminary talk about philanthropic fund-raising. Mr. Epstein told his guests that if they searched his name on the internet they might conclude he was a bad person but that what he had done soliciting prostitution from an underage girl was no worse than stealing a bagel, two of the people said. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Epstein accusers denied compensation in victims' rights case 2019-09-17, MSN News/Associated Press Posted: 2019-09-29 16:22:26 read on msn.com A group of women who say they were sexually abused by Jeffrey Epstein suffered a setback Monday in their decade-long legal fight over a plea deal that allowed the financier to avoid a lengthy prison term. A federal judge in West Palm Beach, Florida, ruled that the women were not entitled to compensation from the U.S. Justice Department, even though prosecutors violated their rights by failing to consult them about the 2008 deal to end a federal probe that could have landed Epstein in prison for life . &quot;In the end they are not receiving much, if any, of the relief they sought,&quot; U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra wrote. Several of Epstein's victims sued the Justice Department in 2008 over their handling of his plea negotiations, in which his victims were purposely kept in the dark by state and federal prosecutors in South Florida. They kept the legal case alive for years ... arguing that prosecutors had violated the federal Crime Victims' Rights Act. The drawn-out litigation ultimately fueled a Miami Herald investigation into the plea negotiations, which in turn led to a new wave of public outrage over perceived favorable treatment for Epstein. Federal prosecutors in New York revived the case, arguing they weren't bound by the original deal, and charged Epstein with sex trafficking. Former Miami U.S. Attorney Alexander Acosta, who oversaw the plea deal, stepped down as U.S. labor secretary amid the renewed scrutiny. And Marra ruled in February that prosecutors had violated the rights of dozens of Epstein accusers. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. New details reveal acrimonious split between Epstein and Duke of York 2019-09-22, CNN News Posted: 2019-09-29 16:20:30 read on cnn.com On August 19, Buckingham Palace put out a statement signed by Prince Andrew, the Duke of York, that was emphatic in distancing the British Royal from the late disgraced financier, Jeffrey Epstein. The statement came days after The Mail On Sunday published grainy video footage that the British paper said showed the prince at the door of Epstein's Manhattan townhouse in 2010. By then Epstein was a registered sex offender who had avoided a federal trial at the time and served only 13 months in jail for state prostitution charges over his involvement with underage girls. In 2015, one of Epstein's accusers, Virginia Roberts Giuffre, said in a federal court filing that she was forced to have sex with the prince while underage. The more than decade-long friendship between Prince Andrew and Epstein, who died by suicide in his jail cell on August 10, ended in the Spring of 2011 , when Epstein threatened legal action against Prince Andrew's ex-wife Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York. On March 7, 2011, Sarah Ferguson admitted publicly that she had accepted GBP 15,000 ($24,000) from Epstein to help pay an employee to whom she owed money. The Duchess gave an interview ... in which she expressed extreme contrition for her lack of judgment by accepting the funds from Epstein. With the interview, she put a clear divide between herself and Epstein. &quot;I abhor pedophilia,&quot; she said, adding that she'd had no knowledge of Epstein's alleged relationships with under-age girls when she took the money. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epsteins lawyers highly skeptical of suicide ruling, say he wasnt despairing, despondent before death 2019-08-27, CNBC News Posted: 2019-09-23 15:49:19 read on cnbc.com A defense lawyer for Jeffrey Epstein on Tuesday expressed deep skepticism that the wealthy financier died by hanging himself in a Manhattan federal jail while awaiting trial on child sex trafficking charges, as a medical examiner has ruled. The injuries suffered by Epstein are far more consistent with assault than suicide, the lawyer, Reid Weingarten, told Judge Richard Berman in U.S. District Court in Manhattan during a hearing. Weingarten cited the defenses own medical sources. Broken bones were found in Epsteins neck during an autopsy after he died Aug. 10. Such fractures are somewhat more common in cases of strangulation than in hanging. Weingarten told the judge that when he and other defense attorneys spoke to Epstein shortly before his death we did not see a despairing, despondent, suicidal person. Weingartens comments came during a proceeding where prosecutors were seeking the dismissal of child sex trafficking charges against the Epstein as a result of his death. More than 20 alleged victims of Epstein spoke or had statements read during the hearing. Weeks before his death, Epstein was found semiconscious in his cell in the Manhattan Correctional Center with marks on his neck. That incident led to him being placed on suicide watch, but he was taken off of that status about a week later. Weingarten also pointed out that weve heard that the surveillance video at the jail around Epsteins cell were either corrupted or not functioning . Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein's body reportedly sealed in unmarked crypt alongside his family 2019-08-23, New Zealand Herald Posted: 2019-09-23 15:47:19 read on nzherald.co.nz Jeffrey Epstein's body has reportedly been laid to rest in an exclusive, leafy memorial chapel in Florida, after his remains were snuck in via mini-van on the Sabbath . According to reports from The Daily Mail , Epstein, the high-risk, registered sex offender, who took his own life after being jailed on international child sex trafficking charges, has had his remains placed in a crypt next to his deceased parents. Next to Epstein's unmarked remains are the names of numerous other deceased Jewish people, who have now been laid to rest next to one of contemporary history's most notorious and hated figures. Epstein, a mysterious financier, whose wealth was believed to be in the billions, cavorted with royalty and powerful politicians, including Bill Clinton and Donald Trump. According to ... The Daily Mail , a memorial plate, formerly in place at the IJ Morris Star of David Cemetery of the Palm Beaches, in Palm Beach, Florida, was removed and replaced with a blank slab . When Epstein's brother, Mark Epstein, was contacted to confirm whether his paedophile brother had been entombed at the Jewish crypt, he said ... &quot;It's a private family matter, you got that? I'm not going to answer your question.&quot; The IJ Morris at Star of David Cemetery is a large site for burials, cremations and tributes, housing dozens of crypts and community vaults, according to their website. The Palm Beach Cemetery is a half-hour drive from one of Epstein's many properties, where he is believed to have abused numerous underage victims, according to unsealed court documents. Note: This news supports the belief of many that Epstein may have been killed or even that he was taken and the body of a double put in. With his body being hidden, an independent autopsy may never be possible to determine if the body was indeed Epstein and if the injuries to the body suggest suicide or murder. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein signed new will to shield $577m fortune days before death 2019-08-22, The Guardian (One of the UK's leading newspapers) Posted: 2019-09-23 15:45:05 read on theguardian.com The will that disgraced financier and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein signed just two days before his jailhouse suicide puts more than $577m in assets into a trust fund that could make it more difficult for his dozens of accusers to collect damages. This is the last act of Epsteins manipulation of the system, even in death , said attorney Jennifer Freeman, who represents child sex abuse victims. By putting his fortune in a trust, he shrouded from public view the identities of the beneficiaries, whether they be individuals, organizations or other entities. For the women trying to collect from his estate, the first order of business will be persuading a judge to pierce that veil and release the details. From there, the women will have to follow the course they would have had to pursue even if Epstein had not created a trust: convince the judge that they are entitled to compensation as victims of sex crimes. The judge would have to decide how much they should get and whether to reduce the amounts given to Epsteins named beneficiaries, who would also be given their say in court. Attorney Lisa Bloom, who represents several Epstein accusers ... said attorneys for the women will go after Epsteins estate in the US Virgin Islands, where the will was filed and where he owned two islands. Bloom said it was gross negligence on the part of Epsteins lawyers and jail personnel to allow him to sign a new will, given that he had apparently attempted suicide a short time before. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. MIT Computer Scientist Richard Stallman Resigns After Claiming Epstein Victim Was Entirely Willing 2019-09-17, Forbes Posted: 2019-09-23 15:43:11 read on forbes.com Computer scientist Richard Stallman has severed his connections with MIT after he claimed that Virginia Giuffre, one of sex offender Jeffrey Epsteins trafficking victims, presented as &quot;entirely willing.&quot; A leading voice in the free software movement, Stallman on Monday resigned as a visiting scientist at the Institutes Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab (CSAIL) and as president of Free Software Foundation. In a message circulated to an MIT CSAIL mailing list and revealed last week by MIT grad Selam Jie Gano, Stallman wrote that Giuffre, who has testified that she was forced to have sex with MIT professor Marvin Minsky on Epstein's private island aged 17, most likely presented herself to him as entirely willing. The email was in a response to a Facebook event calling for MIT students to protest over Epsteins secret donations to the institution, which were revealed by the New Yorker this month. In the emails Stallman claimed that the term sexual assault in relation to Minsky, as used in the Facebook post for the event, was absolutely wrong. He added that the term presumes that [Minsky] applied force or violence. Stallman also implied that being 17 and therefore underage, was a minor detail. The MIT Media Lab has been racked by the revelations that it solicited cash from the disgraced financier and had sought to present his donations as coming from anonymous donors to duck the universitys ban on receiving money from Epstein. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Top MIT official resigns in wake of explosive report on donations facilitated by Jeffrey Epstein 2019-09-08, CNN News Posted: 2019-09-16 17:52:17 read on cnn.com Joi Ito, the director of the Media Lab at MIT, resigned Saturday and the university is calling for an independent investigation following explosive allegations that he and at least one other person at the lab made efforts to make sure Jeffrey Epstein's name was not associated with donations he made or helped solicit . Internal communications and documents obtained by CNN - first reported by the New Yorker - show Epstein was integral to incoming donations from major donors, including $2 million from Bill Gates and at least $5 million from Leon Black, the founder of private equity firm Apollo Global Management. Internal email exchanges show Ito was in direct contact with Epstein about the late financier's donations, which documents show at one point were earmarked for a research scientist. As discussions continued about the funding for the researcher, the Director of Development and Strategy, Peter Cohen, sent an email to an undisclosed recipient, saying &quot;Jeffrey money, needs to be anonymous.&quot; Internal communications dating back to 2014 include several references to Epstein being allowed to make small donations anonymously. The communications show that Epstein helped as an intermediary on high-dollar proposals. In October of 2014 Ito sent an email stating, &quot;This is a $2M gift from Bill Gates directed by Jeffrey Epstein.&quot; His director of Development and Strategy - Cohen - responds &quot;Great! For gift recording purposes, we will not be mentioning Jeffreys name as the impetus for this gift.&quot; Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. How a Ring of Women Allegedly Recruited Girls for Jeffrey Epstein 2019-08-29, New York Times Posted: 2019-09-16 17:50:26 read on nytimes.com Haley Robson was a 16-year-old South Florida high school student. When Jeffrey Epstein tried to grope her ... she brushed his hand away, Ms. Robson said in a 2009 deposition for a civil case. But she continued to visit Mr. Epsteins mansion dozens more times, in a lucrative new role: a recruiter of other teenage girls from her school. After Mr. Epsteins suicide in a Manhattan jail cell in early August, federal authorities have refocused their investigation on the more than half-dozen employees, girlfriends and associates whom prosecutors say he relied on to feed his insatiable appetite for girls . Ms. Robson, now 33, is among them. This small cadre of women helped Mr. Epstein lure girls into his orbit and managed the logistics of his encounters with them. None of Mr. Epsteins associates have been charged or named as co-conspirators in Manhattan. But federal authorities are eyeing possible charges that include sex trafficking and sex trafficking conspiracy. Four women were apparently so instrumental to Mr. Epsteins operation that they were named as possible co-conspirators and were granted immunity from prosecution in a widely criticized plea bargain Mr. Epstein struck with federal prosecutors in Florida more than a decade ago. The four women Sarah Kellen, Lesley Groff, Adriana Ross and Nadia Marcinkova could still be subject to criminal charges in Manhattan. The United States attorneys office has said it is not bound by the Florida agreement. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Sealed Jeffrey Epstein Court Documents Name at Least 1,000 People 2019-09-05, Time Posted: 2019-09-08 23:45:24 read on time.com The names of at least 1,000 people appear in sealed court documents associated with Jeffrey Epstein, a court heard on Wednesday. The revelation came after attorneys for a John Doe asked a federal judge in New York not to release the names of people who were not directly involved with the 2015 defamation lawsuit filed by Epstein accuser Virginia Roberts Giuffre against Epsteins longtime confidante Ghislaine Maxwell. The case was settled in 2017, but the details are only just now emerging. A day before Epsteins death in August, a massive cache of documents from the suit was unsealed - revealing accusations against prominent figures, including former New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson and former Sen. George Mitchell . Within the files, Giuffre alleged Maxwell acted as Epsteins madame and was one of the main women whom Epstein used to procure under-aged girls for sexual activities. Maxwells attorney, Jeffrey S. Pagliuca, said that ... there are literally hundreds of pages of investigative reports that mention hundreds of people. Pagliuca also pointed to a piece of evidence he called an address book, and said it probably includes 1,000 names. What could be the legal implications for anyone who is named? It depends, says Mimi Rocah, a MSNBC legal analyst and former federal prosecutor. Individuals could be implicated in the sex trafficking conspiracy if they were even minimally aware of the age of the girls being exploited and participated or furthered that exploitation in some way, she explains. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Epsteins donations to universities reveal a painful truth about philanthropy 2019-09-05, Washington Post Posted: 2019-09-08 23:43:48 read on beta.washingtonpost.com Jeffrey Epstein forged deep ties with some of the nations elite universities and their scholars, showering them with millions of dollars in donations. The financiers donations supported important research and helped scientists work toward discoveries, but they also provided a veneer of credibility to a convicted sex offender . The ensuing fallout ... illuminates enduring questions for academia about the money that fuels research, and how institutions nurture relationships with donors in the race to excel. Epstein gave repeatedly to MIT and Harvard University. At MIT, the president, L. Rafael Reif, apologized to Epsteins victims in a message to campus. The school accepted about $800,000 of Epsteins money over 20 years, Reif wrote, with gifts to the MIT Media Lab and to a mechanical engineering professor. With hindsight, Reif wrote, we recognize with shame and distress that we allowed MIT to contribute to the elevation of his reputation, which in turn served to distract from his horrifying acts. No apology can undo that. The largest gift to Harvard University from Epstein was $6.5 million in 2003, for the Program for Evolutionary Dynamics. Martin Nowak, director of that program, said there was only one gift from Epstein in support of his research, and that money was spent by 2007. In 2006, when Epstein was facing sex-crime charges, the Harvard Crimson reported that the school would not return the gift, although some prominent recipients of Epsteins donations had done so. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epsteins wealth and power gave him protection that his victims never got 2019-08-10, Miami Herald Posted: 2019-08-26 15:57:32 read on miamiherald.com The more we learn about the late Jeffrey Epsteins 13 months in so-called custody at the Palm Beach County Stockade, the clearer is the lesson: It definitely helped to be rich. Last week, Gov. Ron DeSantis ordered the Florida Department of Law Enforcement to investigate Epsteins coddled life while serving 13 months of an 18-month sentence after pleading guilty in 2008 to two felony counts of prostitution. One of those crimes involved soliciting sex from a minor, serial behavior of Epsteins that had caught the attention of the FBI. A 53-page federal indictment resulting from that probe was spiked by then-U.S. Attorney Alex Acosta, paving the way for the multimillionaires mysteriously lenient plea deal . For Epstein, jail wasnt an incarceration so much as an inconvenience. Deputies were given permission to leave his cell unlocked. During his daily road trips, he was followed by off-duty deputies who were paid $126,000 for their respectful supervision . Attorney Bradley Edwards, who represents some of Epsteins female accusers, said he knows of women who were brought to Epstein for sex while he was away from the stockade during the day. Toward the end of his term, Epstein was even allowed to hang out at his mansion. Another aspect of the 2008 case begging to be examined is ex-State Attorney Barry Krischers decision not to prosecute the well-connected businessman on more serious child-sex charges, despite the urging of Palm Beach detectives. Note: Read a revealing article written by a close relative of media mogul Conrad Black on how Jeffrey Epstein easily manipulated top publishers and politicians because of his relationship to intelligence agencies. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. How Jeffrey Epstein Used the Billionaire Behind Victorias Secret for Wealth and Women 2019-07-25, New York Times Posted: 2019-08-12 22:31:28 read on nytimes.com In May 1997, Alicia Arden, a model in California, was introduced to a man who identified himself as a talent scout for Victorias Secret. He invited her to his Santa Monica hotel room to audition for the brands catalog. When she arrived, Ms. Arden said, the man grabbed her, tried to undress her and said he wanted to manhandle her. Ms. Arden, then 27, fled in tears. In the mid-1990s, two senior executives had discovered that the same man, a close adviser to the companys chief executive, Leslie H. Wexner, was trying to pitch himself as a recruiter for Victorias Secret models. Mr. Wexner was alerted. It is unclear what if any action Mr. Wexner took in response. But the man - Jeffrey E. Epstein, a New York financier - had developed an unusually strong hold on Mr. Wexner, one of the countrys most influential corporate titans. Within years of meeting Mr. Epstein, Mr. Wexner handed him sweeping powers over his finances, philanthropy and private life, according to interviews with people who knew the men as well as court documents and financial records. [Ms. Arden] said she went to the police the day after Mr. Epstein attacked her, worried that he could be using his connection to Victorias Secret to hurt other women. A week later, when she could not stop thinking about what had happened, she returned to the police station to put her report on the record . That police report ... is one of the earliest known police records of an allegation of sexual misconduct against Mr. Epstein . Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Huge cache of newly unsealed records detail how Jeffrey Epstein and his madam allegedly lured girls into sexual servitude 2019-08-10, Chicago Tribune Posted: 2019-08-12 19:23:57 read on chicagotribune.com A chilling picture of how hundreds of girls and young women from around the world were trafficked for sex by Jeffrey Epstein, his madam, Ghislaine Maxwell, and allegedly a number of powerful business and world leaders emerged Friday in court documents unsealed in New York. [They] offer brutal details about Epsteins trafficking of teenage girls ... as well as Maxwells obsessive and often abusive quest to provide him with new girls. Virginia Roberts Giuffre ... provided testimony and evidence ... through photographs, plane logs and even a medical record from Presbyterian Hospital in New York where Giuffre was taken by Epstein after a particularly abusive sex episode. Johanna Sjoberg ... who was a college student at Palm Beach Atlantic University when she was recruited by Maxwell, said that Maxwells primary role in Epsteins life was to provide him with young girls at least three times a day. He explained to me that ... he needed to have three orgasms a day, Sjoberg said in a sworn deposition. The names of some prominent, wealthy men Giuffre says she was directed to have sex with ... include: former New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson, 71, former Sen. George Mitchell, 85, Hyatt hotels magnate Tom Pritzker, 69, and prominent hedge fund manager Glenn Dubin, 62. Epstein's ... butler, in a sworn statement, said [one] girl, visibly traumatized, told him that Epstein and Maxwell had physically threatened to harm her and seized her passport. Giuffres lawyer, David Boies, said ... What the lawsuit was about is this massive sex trafficking operation which went on for years. Every institution in our society failed these girls. Many people knew about this and did nothing. Note: Watch an intriguing video linking Jeffrey Epstein to a global sex trafficking ring reaching to the highest levels of government. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Then explore the excellent, reliable resources provided in our Mind Control Information Center . Jeffrey Epsteins apparent suicide is unfathomable 2019-08-10, Washington Post Posted: 2019-08-12 19:22:19 read on washingtonpost.com For anyone familiar with Bureau of Prisons [BOP] standard operating procedures, Jeffrey Epsteins apparent suicide is more than mysterious; it is unfathomable. The 66-year-old accused sex trafficker was found dead in his prison cell at the Metropolitan Correction Center (MCC) Saturday morning, apparently after having hanged himself. The Bureau of Prisons, the federal agency that runs the MCC, has said the FBI will investigate. It had better. Epsteins death almost certainly means that astounding blunders occurred, perhaps by multiple personnel. If any prisoner in the federal system should have been a candidate for suspicion of suicide, it was the high-profile and disgraced Epstein. All administrative and structural measures should have been in place to ensure it could not happen. And yet it apparently did. Epstein was found last month unconscious in his MCC cell with marks on his neck. If he was not on suicide watch, it would be astonishing. Yet if he were on suicide watch, his death would be virtually inconceivable. BOP personnel, especially at MCC, are the best professionals in the corrections industry, and they receive special training in administrating suicide prevention. How exactly did Epstein manage to kill himself, and why exactly was it that he had access to the tools? Is there a video of Epsteins cell at the crucial time? There should be, and it will reveal exactly how and when Epstein killed himself. And none of this begins to address the royal mess it leaves in the efforts to take stock of Epsteins crimes and their prior slap-on-the-wrist treatment, nor the shambles in which it leaves Epsteins victims. Note: See also this New York Times article on this highly suspicious death. There are many reasons why those in power who have close ties to Epstein would want him dead. It looks like he was &quot;suicided&quot; as so many others have been who threatened the power structure of our world. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Then explore the excellent, reliable resources provided in our Mind Control Information Center . We Found Red Flags All Over Jeffrey Epsteins Jail Records 2019-07-23, MSN News Posted: 2019-08-04 18:15:55 read on msn.com Jeffrey Epsteins lenient 2008 conviction for his sexual assaults on adolescent girls may be described as one of the greatest travesties of justice in recent history. Brad Edwards, an attorney for many of Epsteins victims, announced last week that Epstein continued to prey on young women while serving his sentence in Palm Beach. Unlike other sex offenders in Florida, Epstein had his own wing of the Palm Beach County jail and liberal work release policies . Due to this new information, the Miami Herald reported, the Palm Beach County Sheriffs Office (PBSO) has suddenly opened an internal affairs investigation of Epsteins incarceration. The sheriffs office personnel who provided security for him had to create logs for when they watched him at the Florida Science Foundation (a foundation he apparently set up for his work-release). This appears to have involved two shifts (from 7am to 3pm and 3pm to 11pm). On July 11, 2009 the officer noted that Epstein had one female visitor who signed in. The officer reported that he followed Epstein to his Palm Beach estate at 12pm where Epstein stayed for two and a half hours. The officer did not enter Epsteins residence and sat outside in his car. At 2:31pm he brought Epstein back to his office. The starting and ending mileage implies that the officer drove 75 miles that day. The distance from the county jail to the Florida Science Foundation, to Epsteins house is 4 to 5 miles. It is unclear how 75 miles were logged that day. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Private investigator has spent a decade on Jeffrey Epstein's trail 2019-07-20, CNN News Posted: 2019-08-04 18:13:50 read on cnn.com Detective Michael Fisten hung up his badge after 30 years in law enforcement and started a new career as a private investigator. The subject of his [first] investigation was Jeffrey Epstein, the jet-setting multimillionaire with a criminal sexual interest in young girls. At the time Fisten started investigating the case in 2009, Epstein and prosecutors had already signed a controversial &quot;non-prosecution agreement&quot; that allowed the financier to plead guilty to less serious sex offenses and escape punishment for alleged trafficking crimes that could have landed him in prison for the rest of his life. Epstein spent 13 months in jail for two counts of prostitution. Even then, Epstein was given work-release privileges. Fisten was hired to investigate the case by attorney Brad Edwards, who was suing Epstein in civil court on behalf of many of his accusers. Edwards wanted Fisten to dig deeper. &quot; I started going out and interviewing witnesses that became victims,&quot; Fisten said. &quot;One after another, three girls turned into four girls, turned into five, six, seven and so on...I couldn't help but think that this could've been my daughter .&quot; He said he found it inconceivable that people who traveled in Epstein's social circles weren't aware of his misconduct, particularly with so many underage girls in his company. &quot;Once these girls lost their braces and their pubescent look and started becoming 16-years old or 17-years old, they were too old for him, so then he started using them as recruiters to bring the younger girls,&quot; Fisten said. Note: Watch a video compilation of excellent information on the Epstein case. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. It's Going to be Staggering, the Amount of Names: As the Jeffrey Epstein Case Grows More Grotesque, Manhattan and DC Brace for Impact 2019-07-17, Vanity Fair Posted: 2019-07-28 18:18:45 read on vanityfair.com The Jeffrey Epstein case is an asteroid poised to strike the elite world in which he moved. No one can yet say precisely how large it is. But as the number of women whove accused the financier (at least, thats what he claimed to be) of sexual assault grows to grotesque levels - there are said to be more than 50 women who are potential victims - a wave of panic is rippling through Manhattan, DC, and Palm Beach , as Epsteins former friends and associates rush to distance themselves. Donald Trumps labor secretary, Alexander Acosta, architect of the original 2007 non-prosecution agreement that let Epstein off with a wrist slap, has already been forced to resign. Why did Acosta grant Epstein an outrageously lenient non-prosecution agreement? (And what does it mean that Acosta was reportedly told Epstein belonged to intelligence?) There were other business associates of Mr. Epsteins who engaged in improper sexual misconduct at one or more of his homes. We do know that, said Brad Edwards, a lawyer for Courtney Wild, one of the Epstein accusers. In due time the names are going to start coming out. Of course, the two Epstein friends that people are most curious about are Donald Trump and Bill Clinton, both of whom have denied anything untoward. During the 2016 presidential race, Hillary Clintons campaign consulted Bills postWhite House Secret Service logs because they were worried Trump would bring up Bills close association with Epstein and wanted to get ahead of the story. Note: New York Magazine has a detailed article listing the many high-level contacts found in Epstein's little black book. And in this article on salon.com, a former friend of Epstein gives some salacious details of his life. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epsteins lust for young girls appears uncontrollable, judge says in denying bail to accused sex trafficker 2019-07-18, CNBC News Posted: 2019-07-22 18:26:04 read on cnbc.com A federal judge on Thursday denied bail to wealthy investor Jeffrey Epstein, citing the potential danger to new victims from his apparently uncontrollable sexual fixation on young girls, and the risk that Epstein would flee to avoid prosecution for child sex trafficking charges . The decision by Judge Richard Berman means that the 66-year-old Epstein will remain in jail pending trial in the case, where he faces up to 45 years in prison if convicted. Berman, in a damning written order ... said that lewd photos of young women found in Epsteins mansion are troubling, as is evidence that he tried to influence the potential testimony of accusers and people who allegedly abetted his conduct. This newly discovered evidence also suggests that Mr. Epstein poses ongoing and forward-looking danger, the judge wrote. Mr. Epsteins dangerousness is considerable and includes sex crimes with minor girls and tampering with potential witnesses. In the order, Berman said, Mr. Epsteins alleged excessive attraction to sexual conduct with or in the presence of minor girls - which is said to include his soliciting and receiving massages from young girls and young women perhaps as many as four times a day - appears likely to be uncontrollable. I doubt any bail package could overcome dangerousness ... to community, Berman said during the hearing, agreeing with the recommendation by prosecutors to keep Epstein locked up. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Who Protected Jeffrey Epstein? 2019-07-08, New York Times Posted: 2019-07-22 18:24:36 read on nytimes.com On Monday, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York unsealed a 14-page indictment against Jeffrey Epstein, charging the wealthy financier with operating and conspiring to operate a sex trafficking ring of girls out of his luxe homes on Manhattans Upper East Side and in Palm Beach, Fla., among other locations. Even in the relatively sterile language of the legal system, the accusations against Mr. Epstein are nauseating. From at least in or about 2002 through 2005, the defendant sexually exploited and abused dozens of minor girls, some as young as 14 and many particularly vulnerable to exploitation. The girls were enticed and recruited to visit Mr. Epsteins various homes to engage in sex acts with him. To maintain and increase his supply of victims, he paid some of the girls to recruit additional girls to be similarly abused, thus creating a vast network of underage victims. But Mr. Epstein is not the only one for whom a reckoning is long overdue. The allegations in the New York indictment are a depressing echo of those that Mr. Epstein faced in Florida more than a decade ago. In 2008, federal prosecutors for the Southern District of Florida, at the time led by Alexander Acosta, who is now the nations secretary of labor, helped arrange a plea deal for Mr. Epstein that bent justice beyond its breaking point. In addition to short-circuiting federal charges, the plea agreement killed an F.B.I. investigation and granted immunity to any co-conspirators . Note: Explore an in-depth article from New York Magazine giving a thorough and balanced view of the Epstein case. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Former IT contractor for Jeffrey Epstein says he quit over concerns about revealing pictures and topless young women 2019-07-18, ABC News Posted: 2019-07-22 18:22:32 read on abcnews.go.com A former IT contractor for Jeffrey Epstein who said that he ended their business relationship over personal concerns about gaggles of apparently unsupervised young women on the embattled financier's private island told ABC News that his reluctance to continue working there was underscored by what he said was an extensive collection of photos of topless women displayed throughout the island's compounds. There were photos of topless women everywhere,&quot; said contractor Steve Scully, who said he worked for Epstein for six years beginning in 1999. &quot;On his desk, in his office, in his bedroom, Scully ... said of the private island dubbed &quot;Little St. James.&quot; Scully ... was contracted by Epstein to set up a communications network on Little St. James. But its what Scully said he saw on the island itself more than six years ago that led him to agree to an interview with ABC News: revolving groups of young girls that appeared to him to be minors who were guests on the island . They couldnt have been more than 15 or 16 years old,&quot; he said. Scully said that he would see them on the island whenever he visited for work, riding ATVs, or at times bathing topless on the island's pools and beaches. Scully said he became increasingly alarmed by the presence of these groups of young girls that appeared to him to be without any visible parental supervision. Note: For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Who is Jeffrey Epstein, and why has he been arrested again? 2019-07-11, NBC News Posted: 2019-07-15 17:15:31 read on nbcnews.com Jeffrey Epstein, the millionaire financier, registered sex offender and acquaintance of presidents of both parties, was expected to appear in federal court in New York on Monday in connection with federal sex trafficking allegations, multiple law enforcement officials said. Epstein, 66, of Palm Beach, Florida, was being held in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan after he was arrested Saturday in Teterboro, New Jersey, in a joint investigation by the FBI and New York police. The arrest stems from incidents spanning from 2002 to 2005. Epstein has been in the news for more than a decade since he pleaded guilty in 2008 to procuring a person under 18 for prostitution and felony solicitation of prostitution, according to his plea agreement on charges brought in Florida. Epstein is registered as a sex offender in Florida under a non-prosecution agreement he signed with the office of the U.S. attorney for Miami. Epstein's non-prosecution agreement ... limits the scope of the agreement to only the Miami area. If Epstein is alleged to have committed illegal acts in other parts of the country, the agreement would no longer protect him. Federal prosecutors in New York allege that from at least 2002 through 2005, Epstein paid girls as young as 14 hundreds of dollars in cash for sex at either his Manhattan townhouse or his estate in Palm Beach . Epstein is being charged with one count of sex trafficking conspiracy and one count of sex trafficking, and faces up to 45 years in prison if found guilty. Note: For lots more, see this Miami Herald article and this one . For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein's arrest shows the power of one newspaper's investigation 2019-07-08, CNN News Posted: 2019-07-15 17:13:19 read on cnn.com In the past year the Jeffrey Epstein case was catapulted onto the national news radar by one newspaper, the Miami Herald , and by one reporter in particular, Julie K. Brown. The paper's &quot; Perversion of Justice &quot; series came out last November, and Brown has stayed on the story ever since . As soon as The Daily Beast broke the news that Epstein had been arrested on Saturday evening, fellow journalists and other observers credited Brown and thanked her for the tenacious investigation. Law enforcement officials are also giving credit to the reporting. &quot;We were assisted&quot; by &quot;some excellent investigative journalism,&quot; Manhattan US Attorney Geoffrey Berman said at a Monday morning press conference. William Sweeney, the assistant director-in-charge of the FBI's New York office, added, &quot;We work with facts. When the facts presented themselves, as Mr. Berman hinted at, through investigative journalists' work, we moved on it.&quot; While they didn't cite Brown or the newspaper by name, Berman said in response to a question about the Herald, &quot;we are certainly aware of that reporting.&quot; Brown was ... actually scheduled to interview another one of Epstein's accusers on Monday. But after he was arrested, she cancelled that flight and booked a ticket to New York. True to form, she sought to shift the spotlight, away from her own work and toward her subjects. &quot;The REAL HEROES HERE were the courageous victims that faced their fears and told their stories,&quot; she tweeted Sunday. Note: Explore an in-depth article from New York Magazine giving a thorough and balanced view of the Epstein case. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Trump called Epstein a terrific guy who enjoyed younger girls before denying relationship with him 2019-07-08, Washington Post Posted: 2019-07-15 17:10:46 read on washingtonpost.com Back in 2002, when Jeffrey Epstein was known only as a mysterious financial whiz with a private island and a roster of A-list friends, being friendly with him was something to boast about. And Donald Trump did. Ive known Jeff for fifteen years. Terrific guy, Trump told New York Magazine that year for a story headlined Jeffrey Epstein: International Moneyman of Mystery. Hes a lot of fun to be with. It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the younger side. No doubt about it Jeffrey enjoys his social life. Now, Epstein is in jail, charged with sex trafficking by federal prosecutors who allege he abused dozens of female minors in New York and Palm Beach, Fla. He is no longer a friend anyone would want to claim. And now, Trump doesnt. Alan Garten, an attorney for the Trump Organization, has said Trump had no relationship with Epstein. Outside of Trumps own words, there is clear evidence that the two men both members of the same highflying societies in Manhattan and Palm Beach socialized together in the past. One of Epsteins alleged victims, Virginia Giuffre, was a towel girl in the Mar-a-Lago locker room when she was recruited at the club by Epstein associate Ghislaine Maxwell, according to Giuffres attorney. Maxwell asked Giuffre whether she would like to earn money and learn how to give massages, which led to Epstein sexually abusing her at his homes in Palm Beach and New York, according to Giuffres lawsuit against Maxwell. Note: For clear evidence that Trump distanced himself from Epstein years ago, see this video . For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Trump labor secretary who cut Epstein deal plans to slash funds for sex trafficking victims 2019-07-10, The Guardian (One of the UK's leading newspapers) Posted: 2019-07-15 17:04:03 read on theguardian.com Alexander Acosta, the US labor secretary under fire for having granted Jeffrey Epstein immunity from federal prosecution in 2008, after the billionaire was investigated for having run a child sex trafficking ring, is proposing 80% funding cuts for the government agency that combats child sex trafficking. Acostas plan to slash funding of a critical federal agency in the fight against the sexual exploitation of children is contained in his financial plans for the Department of Labor for fiscal year 2020. In it, he proposes decimating the resources of a section of his own department known as the International Labor Affairs Bureau (ILAB). The bureaus budget would fall from $68m last year to just $18.5m. The proposed reduction is so drastic that experts say it would effectively kill off many federal efforts to curb sex trafficking and put the lives of large numbers of children at risk . ILAB has the task of countering human trafficking, child labor and forced labor across the US and around the world. It is seen as a crucial leader in efforts to crack down on the sex trafficking of minors. Acosta is facing mounting pressure from Democrats to resign, over the lenient deal he gave Epstein and in the wake of the billionaires new prosecution. Epstein was arrested on Saturday and indicted on two sex trafficking counts by federal prosecutors in the southern district of New York. Under the 2008 deal negotiated by Acosta, an FBI investigation that had produced a 53-page draft indictment involving more than 30 potential underage victims was shut down. Note: Alexander Acosta announced his resignation shortly after this article was published. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on sexual abuse scandals from reliable major media sources. Federal court moves to unseal documents in Jeffrey Epstein scandal 2019-03-11, Miami Herald Posted: 2019-03-17 04:50:59 read on miamiherald.com A federal court of appeals in New York on Monday took the first step in unsealing documents that could reveal evidence of an international sex trafficking operation allegedly run by multimillionaire Jeffrey Epstein and his former partner, British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell . The three-judge panel ... gave the parties until March 19 to establish good cause as to why they should remain sealed and, failing to do so, the summary judgment and supporting documents will be made public. The court reserved a ruling on the balance of the documents in the civil case. Were grateful that the court ruled the summary judgment papers are open, said Sanford Bohrer, the attorney representing the Miami Herald , which filed the motion last year to have the entire case file opened. The Herald s appeal is supported by 32 other media companies, including the New York Times and Washington Post . Epstein, 66, was not a party to the lawsuit, which was filed against Maxwell in 2015 by Virginia Roberts Giuffre. Giuffre claimed in the lawsuit that she was recruited by Maxwell at Mar-a-Lago, President Donald Trumps resort in Palm Beach, when she was 16 years old. Giuffre had been working at the resorts spa when Maxwell approached her and asked her whether she wanted to become a masseuse for Epstein. Giuffre claimed that the massages were a ruse for Epstein and Maxwell to sexually abuse her and other underage girls, some of whom were trafficked to other influential people. Note: Read a collection of major media reports on billionaire Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring which also implicate Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, and other world leaders. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Labor Secretary Alex Acosta, other federal prosecutors violated the rights of Jeffrey Epstein's sex-crime victims, judge rules 2019-02-21, CNBC News Posted: 2019-03-04 14:00:53 read on cnbc.com Federal prosecutors, including current Labor Secretary Alex Acosta, violated the rights of sex criminal Jeffrey Epstein's victims during their investigation of the once-influential financier a decade ago, a judge ruled on Thursday. U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra slammed the government for failing to notify Epstein's victims that it had reached a non-prosecution agreement with Epstein while leading those victims to believe that federal charges were still a possibility. More than two dozen lawmakers ... called on the Department of Justice to open a probe last year into Acosta's dealings with Epstein while Acosta served as a U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida. The calls for an inquiry followed an investigation into the deal between prosecutors and Epstein published by the Miami Herald . Epstein, who has had powerful friends such as Bill Clinton and Donald Trump, has been accused of sexually abusing dozens of underage girls. But Marra said that prosecutors violated the Crime Victims' Rights Act in their dealings with two unnamed underage victims . &quot;When the Government gives information to victims, it cannot be misleading,&quot; Marra wrote. &quot;While the Government spent untold hours negotiating the terms and implications of the [non-prosecution agreement] with Epstein's attorneys, scant information was shared with victims. Instead, the victims were told to be 'patient' while the investigation proceeded.&quot; Note: Read a collection of major media reports on billionaire Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring which also implicate Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, and other world leaders. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. It pays to be rich. Just look at the lurid case of Jeffrey Epstein. 2018-12-04, Washington Post Posted: 2019-02-03 22:30:59 read on washingtonpost.com Those with the gold make the rules. In an investigative series [the Miami Herald] documents the whitewash of an alleged global conspiracy to traffic underage girls for sexual exploitation. Though [the Herald] identified more than 80 likely victims, [Jeffrey Epstein] was allowed – under a furtive plea deal – to serve just 13 months in country-club conditions. Epstein, a fantastically wealthy creep, ran afoul of the Palm Beach police in 2005 after the parents of a 14-year-old girl reported that he paid their daughter to strip and massage his naked body while he pleasured himself. Investigators soon found evidence ... indicating that troubled girls by the dozens were recruited for molestation and rape. Epstein’s wealth – the origins of which are a bit murky – assembled an all-star team of defense lawyers, including Alan Dershowitz, the Harvard scholar. Left unresolved is whether Epstein’s extensive array of powerful friends may have helped him out, too. In the same “little black book” where he kept the names of underage girls around the world available for “massage,” Epstein also had contact information for Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, Michael R. Bloomberg, Prince Andrew, assorted Kennedys and so on. Some of Epstein’s accusers [have been silenced]. Silent, too, is Trump, who once claimed a 15-year acquaintance with Epstein, whom he described as “a lot of fun.” Trump noted Epstein’s interest in women “on the younger side.” And Clinton is uncharacteristically mute, though he used to spend so much time on Epstein’s private jet – dubbed “the Lolita Express” – that, if it were an airline, he’d have platinum status. Two of our past four presidents have been chummy with a registered sex offender. It makes you wonder. Note: Read a great interview with Julie Brown, the intrepid reporter who broke the Epstein case. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. And watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. An Epstein sex case is settled; Dershowitz denies latest allegation 2018-12-19, Miami Herald (Miami's leading newspaper) Posted: 2019-02-03 22:28:12 read on miamiherald.com Palm Beach multimillionaire Jeffrey Epstein is a free man, despite sexually abusing dozens of underage girls according to police and prosecutors. Accused sex traffickers Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell have settled a federal civil lawsuit filed by a woman who says she was ordered under threat of violence to have sex with them and other influential individuals when she was in her early 20s. Among those people [Sarah] Ransome claims she was directed to have sex with was Epsteins lawyer, Alan Dershowitz, who helped negotiate a controversial plea deal that gave the eccentric multimillionaire and co-conspirators employed by Epstein federal immunity in 2008. Epsteins lawyers ... secretly negotiated an unusual plea agreement that allowed him to escape federal sex trafficking charges that could have sent him to prison for life. The agreement, by design, was kept from his victims so that they could not appear at his sentencing. Last week, more than two dozen lawmakers in Washington demanded a federal investigation into that plea deal, which was negotiated, signed and sealed by former Miami U.S. Attorney Alexander Acosta, now President Donald Trumps secretary of labor. The complaint alleges that this all occurred at the same time as Epsteins lawyers were negotiating with Acosta and other federal prosecutors for a deal to avoid federal sex trafficking charges in connection with a scheme in which he lured underprivileged girls, mostly 13 to 16, to his home in Palm Beach under the pretense that he would pay them $200 to $300 for massages. Instead, police in Palm Beach found that he had been molesting and sexually abusing dozens of girls between 2001 and 2007. Note: Learn about other major cover-ups in high places in deeply revealing news articles on sexual abuse scandals from reliable major media sources. Second woman claims billionaire perv Jeffrey Epstein 'directed' her to have sex with Alan Dershowitz 2018-12-18, New York Daily News Posted: 2019-02-03 22:25:56 read on nydailynews.com A second alleged trafficking victim of Jeffrey Epstein says the billionaire pedophile &quot;directed&quot; her to have sex with Alan Dershowitz a claim the prominent attorney adamantly denies. The revelation regarding Sarah Ransome ... alleges in her suit that even as Epstein used an army of powerful attorneys including Dershowitz to fight a sex trafficking investigation in Florida, he continued &quot;transporting young females&quot; in New York. Virginia Roberts was the first alleged Epstein victim to claim that he directed her to have sex with Dershowitz. Dershowitz insists he also has never met Roberts, who now lives in Australia. Roberts alleged that [Ghislaine Maxwell] recruited her for Epstein in 1998, when she was 15 years old and working a summer job at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort. Roberts sued Maxwell for defamation, claiming the media heiress smeared her by denying the disturbing sex scheme. They settled the case last year. Epstein, a hedge fund manager with a mansion on the Upper East Side and a private Caribbean island, was once friends with the likes of Bill Clinton, Kevin Spacey and Woody Allen, among other celebs and business titans. &quot;I've known Jeff for 15 years. Terrific guy. He's a lot of fun to be with. It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the younger side,&quot; Trump said of Epstein in 2002. The new scrutiny of the Epstein case prompted Dershowitz to tell Axios that the billionaire had once let him and his family stay at his Palm Beach home. Note: Read a great interview with Julie Brown, the intrepid reporter who broke the Epstein case. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. Why Does Alex Acosta Still Have a Job? 2018-12-03, New York Times Posted: 2019-02-03 22:24:27 read on nytimes.com Last Wednesday, The Miami Herald published a blockbuster multipart expos about how the justice system failed the victims of Jeffrey Epstein, a rich, politically connected financier who appears to have abused underage girls on a near-industrial scale. The investigation, more than a year in the making, described Epstein as running a sort of child molestation pyramid scheme, in which girls some in middle school would be recruited to give Epstein massages ... pressured into sex acts, then coerced into bringing him yet more girls. Whats shocking is ... the way he was able to use his money to escape serious consequences, thanks in part to [Alexander] Acosta, then Miamis top federal prosecutor. Acosta took extraordinary measures to let Epstein and, crucially, other unnamed people off the hook. The labor secretary, whose purview includes combating human trafficking, has done nothing so far to rebut The Heralds reporting. In 2007, Epstein was facing a federal indictment that could have put him away for the rest of his life. In a deal with one of Epsteins attorneys, however, Acosta, a rising star in Republican circles, [let] Epstein plead guilty to two felony prostitution charges in state court. Not only would Epstein serve just 13 months in the county jail, but the deal ... essentially shut down an ongoing F.B.I. probe into whether there were more victims and other powerful people who took part in Epsteins sex crimes. It was ... one of the most lenient deals for a serial child sex offender in history. Note: Read a great interview with Julie Brown, the intrepid reporter who broke the Epstein case. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Jeffrey Epstein from reliable major media sources. Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. The story behind a Palm Beach sex offender's remarkable deal (Video) 2018-11-26, Miami Herald (Miami's leading newspaper) Posted: 2019-01-21 13:54:06 read on miamiherald.com Multimillionaire Jeffrey Epstein is a free man, despite sexually abusing dozens of underage girls according to police and prosecutors. [In 2008, Epstein] received what might have been the most lenient plea deal for a serial sex offender in U.S. history. The Miami Herald identified over 60 of his victims, just young middle and high school girls at the time of the abuse. They were betrayed by the very prosecutors who were supposed to hold Epstein accountable. One child would be lured over. [She] would be offered the further inducement of being paid a bounty for anybody else that she was able to bring to [him]. Epstein ... was also suspected of organizing sex activities with underage girls at his homes in New York City, New Mexico and on his private island in the Caribbean. Hundreds of children all over the world ... were alleged sex slaves of Jeffrey Epstein. Flight logs from his plane and his address book read like a Whos Who of some of the richest and most famous and powerful people in the world celebrities, actors, philanthropists, academics and world leaders. There was ample physical evidence and witness testimony. [Yet] State Attorney Barry Krischer wanted to charge Epstein only with a misdemeanor. The U.S. Attorneys Office got involved, [yet Epstein's] attorneys were able to manipulate the sitting U.S. attorney and the assistant U.S. attorney working the cases. The U.S. attorneys here had an indictment, and they were sending it back and forth to Jeffreys lawyers for changes. This is a situation where ... the defendant and the government are working together against the victims. Note: Don't miss the revealing video of all this at the link above. Then read a great interview with Julie Brown, the intrepid reporter who broke this case. Learn about other major cover-ups in high places in deeply revealing news articles on sexual abuse scandals from reliable major media sources. Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. How power and money colluded to let a sex-obsessed monster get away with abuse 2018-12-07, Washington Post/ AP Posted: 2019-01-06 02:09:47 read on washingtonpost.com Recent revelations about billionaire sex offender Jeffrey Epstein’s sweetheart deal with government prosecutors ... are the tip of the iceberg in a scandal of money, power, sex, corruption and boys’ club criminality. The story [involves] the sexual abuse of girls as young as 14 — and a decade-long process in which lawyers allegedly violated the victims’ rights under federal law. Alan Dershowitz and former Whitewater prosecutor Kenneth W. Starr [Epstein’s lawyers] negotiated a non-prosecution agreement that ultimately afforded Epstein an absurdly lenient sentence: just over a year in the county jail. Epstein was allowed to stay in a vacant wing of the jail and spend up to 12 hours a day in his office, six days a week. Credible allegations in a 53-page, federal draft indictment ... could have put him away for life. Ten years ago, many of the alleged victims were children and likely unaware of their rights. Now fully informed adults, many of the women ... are seeking to set aside the non-prosecution agreement so that their voices can be heard. There’s no doubt that Epstein’s accusers were denied their rights under the 2004 federal Crime Victims’ Rights Act. Among other things, the law asserts that accusers are to be notified of any legal proceedings ... and they or their attorneys are to be present at such proceedings. None of this happened. The sealed, non-prosecution agreement granted federal immunity not only to Epstein and four named accomplices but also to “any [unnamed] potential co-conspirators.” Note: The &quot;potential co-conspirators&quot; include Bill Clinton, Donald Trump, many actors, business tycoons, and more according to this Miami Herald article . Another article directly implicates Prince Andrew and details the revelations of Epstein's butler, who feared for his life. Learn about other major cover-ups in high places in deeply revealing news articles on sexual abuse scandals from reliable major media sources. Serial sex abuser Jeffrey Epstein apologizes but not to his victims 2018-12-04, Miami Herald (Miami's leading newspaper) Posted: 2019-01-06 02:08:09 read on miamiherald.com Jeffrey Epstein, a politically connected multimillionaire who molested dozens of underage girls and is suspected of trafficking countless other girls around the world issued a public apology Tuesday. It was not to the victims ... but to one of their lawyers. The apology came as a settlement was announced ... between Epstein, 65, and Fort Lauderdale attorney Bradley Edwards, who represents several of Epsteins victims. Those victims, now in their late 20s and early 30s, had been scheduled to testify in the trial, which was about to get underway. The case only indirectly involved the abuse inflicted on Epsteins victims and instead focused on a battle between Epstein and Edwards. The trial ended before it began, with a dramatic statement ... that Epstein admitted now hed used the civil justice system as a tool for extortion in order to intimidate Edwards into abandoning his quest for justice for [Epsteins] victims. Several of Epsteins victims described how they felt intimidated and shamed into silence by both Epstein and the federal and state prosecutors. The women were deliberately kept in the dark. Prosecutors effectively sabotaged their case in order to help Epstein, whose friends included former President Bill Clinton, Donald Trump, Prince Andrew and actors, academics and world leaders. Edwards hoped to use the forum of the trial to allow sex abuse victims to tell their stories ... for the first time. But over the past several months, the judge had narrowed the scope of the case, prohibiting Edwards from producing evidence that Epstein had abused and trafficked hundreds of young girls between 1999 and 2006. Note: Once again, the U.S. justice system bends the law to protect a convicted pedophile and the top leaders to whom he served young girls for sex. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing news articles on Epstein's child sex ring from reliable major media sources. Then explore other excellent, reliable news summaries on high level sex abuse scandals around the world. Jeffrey Epsteins plea deal is a travesty. But we can still find justice. 2018-12-11, Washington Post Posted: 2018-12-23 20:09:54 read on washingtonpost.com The aim of the victims rights movement, which arose in the 1970s and has swept through every state in the union and changed federal laws in the years since, is often summed up simply: Crime victims have the right to be informed, present and heard. All these rights were trampled by Alexander Acosta, formerly the U.S. attorney in South Florida and currently U.S. secretary of labor, when he struck a secret deal with wealthy sex offender Jeffrey Epstein to shield Epstein from federal investigation and prosecution. Acostas representatives misled Epsteins young victims by telling them the FBI was hard at work on their cases and asking them to be patient. Even when a handful of the victims - who may number in the hundreds - learned at the last minute that Epstein was entering a guilty plea and receiving a slap on the wrist, they still werent told that the federal case was being dropped . And because these victims were not informed, they were not present in court to oppose the deal and could not be heard by the sentencing judge protesting this disgraceful sham. Paul Cassell, perhaps the nations foremost legal authority on victims rights, has petitioned a federal judge in Florida to invalidate Epsteins arrangement on grounds that it violated the Crime Victims Rights Act (CVRA) of 2004. Given Epsteins last-minute settlement on Dec. 4 of a civil case that might have aired this tawdry laundry, Cassells suit may be the last chance these victims have for their day in court. Note: Read a collection of major media reports on billionaire Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring which directly implicate Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, and other world leaders. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein's slap on the wrist raises a lot of questions. The DOJ needs to get answers. 2018-12-11, NBC News Posted: 2018-12-23 20:07:51 read on nbcnews.com For six years, between 2001 and 2007, Jeffrey Epstein allegedly ran a sex trafficking ring that preyed on minor girls as young as 13. So why was he given a slap on the wrist by federal prosecutors in Florida? Senators, both Republican and Democrat, are asking the same question. Sen. Ben Sasse, R-Neb., wrote a series of letters to the Department of Justice last week, calling for the DOJs inspector general to review the handling of the case as well as for a congressional review of the decision-making process. While the criminal case has been resolved, many questions remain. According to extensive reporting by the Miami Herald , Epstein recruited, manipulated and lured at least 80 girls to his mansion in Palm Beach, Florida and elsewhere, then sexually abused them. Congress has passed stringent laws for sex trafficking and sexual exploitation of minors because these are heinous crimes. Epstein, however, was able to escape this punishment, despite alleged crimes that by all accounts were indeed heinous. The known facts in this case cry out for an official, thorough inquiry. Why were the identities of minor victims turned over to Epsteins attorneys? The governments agreement to suspend and hold in abeyance any grand jury investigation for other people potentially involved in these crimes is simply baffling . Note: Read a collection of major media reports on billionaire Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring which directly implicate Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, and other world leaders. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Years After Plea Deal in Sex Case, Jeffrey Epsteins Accusers Will Get Their Day in Court 2018-11-29, New York Times Posted: 2018-12-16 23:20:57 read on nytimes.com The sordid case against Jeffrey E. Epstein, who was accused of paying dozens of underage girls for sexual massages in Florida, appeared to end a decade ago. The wealthy New York financier struck a deal to avoid any federal criminal charges, enraging some of his victims who got no say in the agreement, which they deemed far too lenient. But the victims and their lawyers have continued to fight in civil court, long after Mr. Epstein ... became a free man. Jury selection is scheduled to begin next week in a West Palm Beach, Fla., courtroom for a civil trial that ... could give Mr. Epsteins victims, who are now adults, a chance to publicly testify about their attempts to win justice after the sexual abuse they endured as children. Mr. Epsteins accusers could take the witness stand just days after a local investigative report published new details on how Mr. Epstein preyed on young teenage girls and how prosecutors appeared to buckle to pressure from Mr. Epsteins high-powered defense lawyers. Not one of Mr. Epsteins victims was initially informed of the nonprosecution agreement, whose terms called for it to be kept secret. It was not until afterward that victims and their lawyers learned that no federal prosecutions against Mr. Epstein would be initiated . The secret deal prompted two of the victims ... to sue the government, claiming that the agreement had violated the federal Crime Victims Rights Act, which grants victims the right to be informed of crucial steps during a prosecution, such as plea negotiations. Note: Read a collection of major media reports on billionaire Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring which directly implicate Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, and other world leaders. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Butler Gets Same Prison Sentence as His Boss 2010-07-21, Wall Street Journal Posted: 2018-12-16 23:18:09 read on blogs.wsj.com U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra on Friday sentenced butler Alfredo Rodriguez to 18 months in prison for trying to sell an incriminating piece of evidence against his boss. Mr. Rodriguez was the butler for Jeffrey Epstein, the New York/Palm Beach billionaire who pleaded guilty in 2007 to two sex-related charges after more than a dozen women - many underage - claimed Mr. Epstein sexually abused them. Mr. Rodriguez tried to sell a journal that documented his bosss sexual exploits and refused to turn it over to investigators when they first asked for it. His aim was to sell it for $50,000 to lawyers representing the women who had filed civil lawsuits against Mr. Epstein. Here is the puzzling part: Mr. Rodriguez may end up spending more time in prison than Mr. Epstein. Judge Marra gave Mr. Rodriguez an 18-month sentence - the same sentence given to Mr. Epstein. Mr. Epstein served only 13 months in prison and was released. Even under house arrest, he is free to leave is Palm Beach, Fla., mansion . The judge conceded that the equal sentences didnt make much sense. the identical sentences seem like a strange administration of justice given the different crimes. Lesson learned: even if the butler didnt do it, he still can go to prison for the cover-up. Note: Epstein's butler feared for his life and ended up dead before he could reveal his secrets. Read a collection of major media reports on billionaire Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring which directly implicate Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, and other world leaders. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Prince Andrew sex allegations: Jeffrey Epstein's butler Alfredo Rodriguez, who stole tell-all 'black book', dies age 60 2015-01-07, The Independent (One of the UK's leading newspapers) Posted: 2018-12-16 23:15:52 read on independent.co.uk Alfredo Rodriguez, the butler of convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, has died, and with him the location of a black book, which allegedly details the full scope and the extent of Epsteins involvement with underage girls, and contact details of the businessmans celebrity friends. Rodriguez died at the age of 60 after suffering from mesothelioma last week, his widow Patricia Dunn [ said ]. Dunn alleges that her late husband knew all about Prince Andrew, who has been named in the current sex scandal centering on Epstein. Allegations leveled at the Prince are that he was supplied with a teenage girl who was used by Epstein as a sex slave. The black book that Rodriguez had in his possession [was a] journal in which Epstein is understood to have detailed the girls which attended his properties for massages for him and his friends, and details of his celebrity friends and associates who had no connection with alleged offences, including Bill Clinton and Donald Trump. Rodriguez, who stole the book, claimed he needed it as insurance against the businessman to protect his own life. The butler failed to tell prosecutors he possessed the book and later refused to hand it over. He was jailed for 18 months for attempting to sell it for $50,000. In 2011 it emerged that the journal detailed the full scope and the extent of Epsteins involvement with underage girls, according to prosecuting lawyers, who referred to it as The Holy Grail. Note: If the above link fails, this article is available in the Internet Archive . Read a collection of major media reports on billionaire Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring which directly implicate Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, and other world leaders. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein and the Decline of the American Experiment 2018-12-04, Vanity Fair Posted: 2018-12-10 21:37:26 read on vanityfair.com A decade ago, a billionaire pedophile was able to use his wealth and connections to escape any semblance of a just punishment. The whole system shielded the billionaire from the gravity of his crimes. That its functionaries felt compelled to do so says a lot about our ruling elites. The basic story is this: Jeffrey Epstein is a billionaire financier. He is also a sexual pervert who, until about 12 years ago, preyed serially on teenage children, roughly until they reached the age of consent and became, in his eyes, unattractive. What did authorities do when they found out, back in 2005? They spent a couple of years investigating and drawing up an indictment, then proceeded to quash further investigation, cooperated with Epsteins lawyers to avoid publicity, violated procedures about plea bargains, made Epstein serve only 13 months in confinement, put him in the county jail rather than state prison ... and concealed most of the terms of the settlement from the public and the victims themselves. Epsteins enablers werent a handful of Palm Beach rogues. Instead, the higher up the chain you went, the more sympathetic to Epstein the players seem to become. Of Epsteins associates who helped make his crimes possible, none were prosecuted, save one. That was a butler who tried to turn over a so-called black book documenting names and dates of Epsteins escapades to a lawyer for the victims in exchange for $50,000. For this, the butler wound up serving an 18-month sentence , longer than that of his boss. Note: Epstein's butler feared for his life and ended up dead before he could reveal his secrets. Both Trump and Bill Clinton were good friends of Epstein, as described in this revealing article from Miami's leading newspaper. Learn about how the Miami Herald broke this vitally important story in this article . For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. We dug deep to give a voice and a face to Jeffrey Epsteins victims 2018-12-02, Miami Herald (Miami's leading newspaper) Posted: 2018-12-10 21:35:00 read on miamiherald.com Much has been written about Jeffrey Epstein, the wealthy businessman who sexually abused and trafficked underage girls for years. Yet so little had been heard from the victims, dozens of adolescents, some still wearing braces, who were cut out of the lenient deal that sent the town of Palm Beach sex offender to jail for only 13 months. That is the power of Perversion of Justice , an investigation by Miami Herald reporter Julie K. Brown that for the first time gives a voice and a face to some of the victims of the Epstein case. A decade after a secret plea agreement ... the victims - now women in their late 20s and early 30s - are still seeking an elusive justice. Brown first became interested in the topic of sex trafficking after completing a series on abuses at a Florida womens prison . In her early research, the Jeffrey Epstein case came up repeatedly. Brown dug as deeply as possible into the behind-the-scenes machinations that characterized the Jeffrey Epstein prosecution. She was able to identify 80 possible victims, labeled Jane Does in lawsuits to protect their identifies as minors. She reached out to 60 of the women and eight agreed to talk about the case. Four victims ... spoke on the record and on camera, three of them for the first time . Efforts to keep details of the case secret ... are underscored not just by sealed court documents in various civil cases, but by emails between the prosecution and the defense, which talked about an avoid-the-press strategy and a deliberate campaign to keep the victims in the dark. Note: Video of Epstein's victims speaking out is available at the link above. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. A decade before #MeToo, a multimillionaire sex offender from Florida got the ultimate break. 2018-11-28, Miami Herald (Miami's leading newspaper) Posted: 2018-12-03 05:17:26 read on web.archive.org Jeffrey Epstein had a little black book filled with the names and personal phone numbers of some of the world's wealthiest and most influential people, from Bill Clinton and Donald Trump to actors, actresses, scientists and business tycoons. For years, Epstein lured an endless stream of teenage girls to his Palm Beach mansion, offering to pay them for massages. Instead, police say, for years he coerced middle and high school girls into engaging in sex acts with him and others. As evidence emerged that there were victims and witnesses outside of Palm Beach, the FBI began an investigation in 2006 into whether Epstein and others employed by him were involved in underage sex trafficking. But in 2007, despite substantial evidence that corroborated the girls' stories of abuse by Epstein, the U.S. attorney in Miami, Alexander Acosta, signed off on a secret deal for the multimillionaire, one that ensured he would never spend a day in prison. Acosta, now President Donald Trump's secretary of labor, agreed to seal the agreement so that no one – not even Epstein's victims – would know the full extent of his crimes or who was involved. The Miami Herald obtained thousands of FBI and court records, lawsuits, and witness depositions, and went to federal court in New York to access sealed documents in the reporting of &quot;Perversion of Justice.&quot; The Herald also tracked down more than 60 women who said they were victims, some of whom had never spoken of the abuse before. Note: See the timeline on this critical story. Learn about other major cover-ups in high places in deeply revealing news articles on sexual abuse scandals from reliable major media sources. Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads directly to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. Even from jail, sex abuser manipulated the system. His victims were kept in the dark 2018-11-28, Miami Herald (Miami's leading newspaper) Posted: 2018-12-03 05:15:27 read on miamiherald.com Jeffrey Edward Epstein appeared at his sentencing dressed comfortably. At the end of the 68-minute hearing, the 55-year-old silver-haired financier - accused of sexually abusing dozens of underage girls - was fingerprinted and handcuffed, just like any other criminal sentenced in Florida. But inmate No. W35755 would not be treated like other convicted sex offenders in the state of Florida, which has some of the strictest sex offender laws in the nation. Epstein - who had a long list of powerful, politically connected friends - didnt go to state prison like most sex offenders in Florida. Instead, the multimillionaire was assigned to a private wing of the Palm Beach County stockade, where he was able to hire his own security detail. Even then, he didnt spend much time in a cell. He was allowed to go to his downtown West Palm Beach office for work release, up to 12 hours a day, six days a week, records show. [Courtney] Wild, who was 14 when she met Epstein, is suing the federal government, alleging that prosecutors kept her and other victims in the dark as part of a conspiracy to give Epstein ... one of the most lenient deals for a serial child sex offender in history. That lawsuit - and an unrelated state court case scheduled for trial on Dec. 4 - could expose more about Epsteins crimes, as well as who else was involved and whether there was any undue influence that tainted the federal case. Some of Epsteins victims will finally have an opportunity to testify for the first time. Note: Watch a 15-minute news video which asks hard questions around Epstein and more. The incredibly eye-opening documentary &quot; Imperium &quot; uses major media reporting to show a huge cover-up of child sex trafficking rings which lead to the highest level of government. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. How a future Trump Cabinet member gave a serial sex abuser the deal of a lifetime 2018-11-28, Miami Herald (Miami's leading newspaper) Posted: 2018-12-03 05:11:46 read on miamiherald.com In 2007, Miamis top federal prosecutor, Alexander Acosta, had a breakfast appointment with a former colleague, Washington, D.C., attorney Jay Lefkowitz. For Lefkowitz ... the meeting was critical. His client, Palm Beach multimillionaire Jeffrey Epstein, 54, was accused of assembling a large, cult-like network of underage girls - with the help of young female recruiters - to coerce into having sex acts ... as often as three times a day. [Epstein] was also suspected of trafficking minor girls, often from overseas, for sex parties at his other homes in Manhattan, New Mexico and the Caribbean, FBI and court records show. But on the morning of the breakfast meeting, a deal was struck an extraordinary plea agreement that would conceal the full extent of Epsteins crimes and the number of people involved. The deal ... shut down an ongoing FBI probe into whether there were more victims and other powerful people who took part in Epsteins sex crimes. Epstein and four of his [named] accomplices ... received immunity from all federal criminal charges. The deal included wording that granted immunity to &quot;any potential co-conspirators&quot; who were also involved in Epsteins crimes. These accomplices or participants were not identified in the agreement. Now President Trumps secretary of labor, Acosta, 49, oversees a massive federal agency that provides oversight of the countrys labor laws, including human trafficking. Court records reveal details of the ... role that Acosta would play in arranging the deal, which scuttled the federal probe into a possible international sex trafficking operation . Note: Watch a 15-minute news video which asks hard questions around Epstein's pedophile ring and more. The incredibly eye-opening documentary &quot; Imperium &quot; uses major media reporting to show a huge cover-up of child sex trafficking rings which lead to the highest level of government. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Cops worked to put serial sex abuser in prison. Prosecutors worked to cut him a break 2018-11-28, Miami Herald (Miami's leading newspaper) Posted: 2018-12-03 05:08:00 read on miamiherald.com [Jeffrey] Epstein, a multimillionaire hedge fund manager whose friends included a constellation of entertainers, politicians, business titans and royalty, for years lured teenage girls to his Palm Beach mansion as part of a cult-like sex pyramid scheme , police in the town of Palm Beach found. In 2007, despite ample [evidence], federal prosecutors and Epsteins lawyers quietly put together a remarkable deal for Epstein. He and his accomplices received immunity from federal sex-trafficking charges. After the FBI case was closed in 2008, witnesses and alleged victims testified in civil court that there were hundreds of girls who were brought to Epsteins homes, including girls from Europe, Latin America and former Soviet Republic countries. There were really just two people willing to risk their careers to go after Epstein: Palm Beach Police Chief Michael Reiter and Detective Joseph Recarey. In their first media interviews about the case, Reiter and Recarey revealed [how they were] pressured by then-Palm Beach State Attorney Barry Krischer to downgrade the case to a misdemeanor or drop it altogether . Police reports show that Epsteins private investigators attempted to conduct interviews while posing as cops; that they picked through Reiters trash in search of dirt to discredit him; and that the private investigators were accused of following the girls and their families. It became apparent to me that some of our evidence was being leaked to Epsteins lawyers, Reiter said. Note: Learn about how the Miami Herald broke this vitally important story in this article . Read a collection of major media reports on billionaire Jeffrey Epstein's child sex ring which directly implicate Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, and other world leaders. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Jeffrey Epstein: the billionaire paedophile with links to Bill Clinton, Kevin Spacey, Robert Maxwell and Prince Andrew 2015-01-02, The Independent (One of the UK's leading newspapers) Posted: 2018-04-02 02:20:10 read on independent.co.uk A list of people who have associated with Jeffrey Epstein over the years would take in the world of celebrity, science, politics - and royalty . Over the years, the casually-dressed, globe-trotting financier, who was said to log more than 600 flying hours a year, has been linked with Bill Clinton, Kevin Spacey, Chris Tucker and Manhattan-London society figure Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter of the late media titan Robert Maxwell. Epstein reportedly flew Tucker and Spacey to Africa on his private jet as part of a charitable endeavour. Clinton, meanwhile, flew on multiple occasions in the same plane to Epsteins private Caribbean island, Little St James, between 2002 and 2005 as he developed his philanthropic post-presidential career. It would later be alleged in court that Epstein organised orgies on that same private island in the US Virgin Islands. Reports in the US media say many of the A-list names broke off any links with the former maths teacher after his arrest and conviction in 2008 of having sex with an underage girl whom he had solicited. His arrest followed an 11-month undercover investigation at a mansion in Floridas Palm Beach that Epstein owned . In 2008, he pleaded guilty to a single charge of soliciting prostitution and was handed a 18-month jail sentence. He served 13 months in jail and was obliged to register as a sex offender. Note: Read more about the child sex trafficking ring Epstein allegedly operated. This article says, &quot;Epstein wired his mansion with hidden cameras, secretly recording orgies involving his prominent friends and underage girls. The ultimate purpose: blackmail, according to court papers.&quot; For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Flight logs show Bill Clinton flew on sex offender's jet much more than previously known 2016-05-13, Fox News Posted: 2017-02-06 08:25:37 read on foxnews.com Former President Bill Clinton was a much more frequent flyer on a registered sex offenders infamous jet than previously reported, with flight logs showing the former president taking at least 26 trips aboard the Lolita Express - even apparently ditching his Secret Service detail for at least five of the flights. Jeffrey Epsteins Boeing 727 ... was reportedly outfitted with a bed where passengers had group sex with young girls. Epstein, who counts among his pals royal figures, heads of state, celebrities and fellow billionaires ... allegedly had a team of traffickers who procured girls as young as 12 to service his friends . In 2006, at the request of Palm Beach Police, the FBI launched a federal probe into allegations that Epstein and his personal assistants had used facilities of interstate commerce to induce girls between the ages of 14 and 17 to engage in illegal sexual activities. The U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida prepared charging documents that accused Epstein of child sex abuse, witness tampering and money laundering, but Epstein took a plea deal. On Sept. 24, 2007, in a deal shrouded in secrecy that left alleged victims shocked at its leniency, Epstein agreed to a 30-month sentence, including 18 months of jail time and 12 months of house arrest and the agreement to pay dozens of young girls under a federal statute providing for compensation to victims of child sexual abuse. In exchange, the U.S. Attorneys Office promised not to pursue any federal charges against Epstein or his co-conspirators. Note: Watch an excellent video with transcript about Epstein's secret operation. Read more about the child sex trafficking ring Epstein allegedly operated. Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. For more, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Patterson takes on sordid Jeffrey Epstein case in 'Filthy Rich' 2016-10-10, USA Today Posted: 2017-01-30 00:26:14 read on usatoday.com James Patterson, that human fiction factory, has churned out another book, only this time its a real-life whodunit. Or perhaps, [this book] is more of a why-did-he-get-off-so-lightly? Jeffrey Epstein ... is, indeed, filthy rich. One supposition on how he got so, based on unnamed sources in &quot; Filthy Rich ,&quot; is that he crafted tax-avoidance schemes for filthy rich clients. Epstein hung out with a diverse cast of characters, among them Prince Andrew, Stephen Hawking and bra-billionaire Les Wexner. He also spent time with impecunious teenage girls who were engaged to massage him. Mary (not her real name) ... was 14 when she was invited into Epsteins lair. The testimony of Epsteins masseuses to police meanders from soft porn to more graphic fare and goes on page after page. Most of the women who told their stories to the police never got to testify in the half-hearted (at best) prosecution of Epstein, including Alison, who claimed that she had been raped. Backed by a dream team of lawyers - among them Alan Dershowitz (who defended O.J. Simpson and Claus von Blow) and Ken Starr (whose investigation of Bill Clintons affair with Monica Lewinsky led to his impeachment) - Epstein pleaded guilty to state felony offenses for solicitation of prostitution and the procurement of minors for prostitution. By doing so Epstein avoided the possibility of facing much more serious charges. Epstein received an 18-month sentence, but served barely a year. Note: Read more about the child sex trafficking ring Epstein allegedly operated. Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. For more, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. The sex slave scandal that exposed pedophile billionaire Jeffrey Epstein 2016-10-09, New York Post Posted: 2017-01-30 00:23:40 read on nypost.com In 2005, the world was introduced to reclusive billionaire Jeffrey Epstein, friend to princes and an American president. He was also a pedophile, accused of recruiting dozens of underage girls into a sex-slave network, buying their silence and moving along, although he has been convicted of only one count of soliciting prostitution from a minor. Visitors to his private Caribbean island, known as Orgy Island, have included Bill Clinton, Prince Andrew and Stephen Hawking. Flight logs show that from 2001 to 2003, Bill Clinton flew on Epsteins private plane, dubbed The Lolita Express by the press, 26 times. After Epsteins arrest in July 2006, federal tax records show Epstein donated $25,000 to the Clinton Foundation that year. Epstein was also a regular visitor to Donald Trumps Mar-a-Lago, and the two were friends. In 2003, New York magazine reported that Trump also attended a dinner party at Epsteins honoring Bill Clinton. In a 2006 court filing, Palm Beach police noted that a search of Epsteins home uncovered two hidden cameras. The Mirror reported that in 2015, a 6-year-old civil lawsuit filed by Jane Doe No. 3 ... alleged that Epstein wired his mansion with hidden cameras, secretly recording orgies involving his prominent friends and underage girls. The ultimate purpose: blackmail, according to court papers . Jane Doe No. 3 also alleged that she had been forced to have sex with numerous prominent American politicians, powerful business executives, a well-known prime minister, and other world leaders. Note: Read more about the child sex trafficking ring Epstein allegedly operated. Watch an excellent segment by Australia's &quot;60-Minutes&quot; team &quot; Spies, Lords and Predators &quot; on a pedophile ring in the UK which leads to the highest levels of government. A second suppressed documentary, &quot; Conspiracy of Silence ,&quot; goes even deeper into this topic in the US. For more, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sexual abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Lawyers for Billionaire Sex Offender Linked to Prince Andrew Scandal Ask Judge to Keep Documents Sealed 2015-01-27, ABC News Posted: 2015-02-02 13:25:46 read on abcnews.go.com Attorneys for convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein claim in a new court filing that the billionaire financier will be &quot;irreparably harmed&quot; if emails and letters his lawyers sent to federal prosecutors ... are made public. They're asking a judge to order that the correspondence remain sealed. Epstein's legal brief ... represents his first formal statements since explosive allegations emerged last month that he had forced a then-17-year-old girl to have sex with Britain's Prince Andrew and other powerful men. Virginia Roberts, 31, ... claimed in court documents that Epstein ... trafficked her for sex with a host of his prominent associates, including three times with Prince Andrew ... and at least six times with longtime Harvard legal professor,Alan Dershowitz. Roberts ... seeks to join a case filed by two other women. Those women contend that the deal with Epstein violated their rights as crime victims to be consulted and treated with fairness in the administration of justice. The case, which was first filed in July 2008 as an emergency motion to stop the deal from taking place without their input. Unbeknownst at the time to the victims, the agreement had already been signed nine months earlier. Last fall, Judge Marra unsealed a small portion of the correspondence from Epstein's attorneys. One excerpt -- a one-line email from an Epstein attorney sent just as the terms of the non-prosecution deal were being finalized -- reads simply: &quot;Please do whatever you can to keep this from becoming public.&quot; If [Marra] were to side with the plaintiffs, the immediate effect could be the unsealing of a 23-page letter written in part by Dershowitz and sent to federal prosecutors two months before the agreement was signed. Note: Watch powerful evidence in a suppressed Discovery Channel documentary showing that child sexual abuse scandals reach to the highest levels of government. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sex abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Prince Andrew sex allegations: Jeffrey Epstein 'the most dangerous sexual predator America has ever seen', lawyer's letter claims 2015-01-07, The Independent (One of the UK's leading newspapers) Posted: 2015-01-19 20:58:39 read on independent.co.uk The FBI allegedly possesses &quot;secret documents&quot; about the American billionaire [Jeffrey Epstein] that could provide evidence for under-age &quot;sex slave&quot; accusations against him , [which include] forcing a 17-year-old girl to have sex with Prince Andrew, Duke of York. FBI documents are said to show that Epstein controlled under-age girls who could provide evidence about the claims. In May last year, prosecutors surrendered 541 pages of correspondence with Epsteins lawyers leading up to a 2008 non-prosecution agreement. A letter released by the court last year showed Brad Edwards, [alleged victim Virginia] Robertss lawyer, telling the US attorneys office that Epstein &quot;may be the most dangerous sexual predator that the country has ever seen&quot;. The letter continued: &quot;The evidence suggests that for at least four years he was sexually abusing as many as three to four girls a day. &quot;He uses his extraordinary wealth and power to lure in poor, underprivileged little girls and then also uses his wealth to shield himself from prosecution and liability.&quot; Lawyers for Virginia Roberts ... have said that evidence against the billionaire was covered up after lobbying by his political and social connections . Epstein pleaded guilty in 2008 to a single charge of soliciting prostitution. Note: An FBI investigation has identified 40 female victims of Epstein's elite criminal enterprise. For more along these lines, watch powerful evidence in a suppressed Discovery Channel documentary showing that child sexual abuse scandals reach to the highest levels of government, or read concise summaries of deeply revealing sex abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Prince Andrew Sex Scandal Lawsuit Has High Legal Stakes 2015-01-07, Time Posted: 2015-01-11 22:38:22 read on time.com A federal court filing accuses ... Prince Andrew of having sex in three countries with the self-described sex slave of an American financier, Jeffrey Epstein . The lawsuit that mentions these charges [targets] the U.S. Department of Justice. The case [started] in 2005, when Florida police began investigating claims that Epstein was paying underage girls for sex at his West Palm Beach home. Investigators uncovered evidence that more than a dozen girls may have been victimized by Epstein. The Justice Department agreed to a deal with Epstein that required him to plead guilty to two state charges, including a single count of solicitation of minors for prostitution, to register as a sex offender and to serve a short jail sentence. In exchange, the U.S. Attorney agreed to drop any further prosecution. The agreement also said that the parties anticipate that this agreement will not be made part of any public record, an unusual condition for such a criminal plea. The [deal] shocked several of the victims. The case has been now been ongoing for six years, with more than 280 filings. In legal filings, Edwards [a Florida trial lawyer] and Cassell [a victims' rights advocate and former federal judge] have questioned [the] pressure on the U.S. Attorney to keep the case from trial, either from Prince Andrew or former President Clinton, who travelled with Epstein on his private plane at the time but has not been accused of wrongdoing. The elephant in the room is this: How does a guy who sexually abused 40 girls end up doing basically one year in a halfway house, says Cassell. Note: This is the second recent child sex scandal connected with UK royalty . Watch powerful evidence in a suppressed Discovery Channel documentary showing that child sexual abuse scandals reach to the highest levels of government. For more along these lines, see concise summaries of deeply revealing sex abuse scandal news articles from reliable major media sources. Important Note: Explore our full index to revealing excerpts of key major media news stories on several dozen engaging topics. And don't miss amazing excerpts from 20 of the most revealing news articles ever published. (Wanttoknow.info) SUBSCRIBE DONATE harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe 1 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts