Would Trump Resign Rather Than Disclose - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Would Trump Resign Rather Than Disclose A Comment From Me and Then Jon Rappoport's Recent Masterpiece harry blazer Jul 16, 2025 2 Share Jon Rappoport has asked the critical question (which I was wondering myself just a day ago): “Would Trump Resign Rather Than Disclose”. And I bet you Trump is that committed to making sure the coverup stays put that, if push came to shove, he would resign. Although, in the meantime, he will try every trick in the book and not in the book to rationalize his way out of this. But this can’t go away. I told Catherine Austin Fitts many years ago that the two vulnerabilities for the Deep State are money and pedophilia. That was after she taught me how the money works and how extensive pedophilia is and the important role of both in fraud and creating control files. Start pulling on a string for either of these two and it will lead to the “Great Unravelling”. And this Epstein thing is more like a rope - as would be JFK, MLK, RFK, 9-11, Liberty Ship files - and why huge effort has been and is still being spent to make sure things remain covered up. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe And for sure records in all cases have been tampered with, important documents destroyed. But in the Epstein case, there are still a lot of victims and perpetrators that are still alive - including whomever was in Epstein’s cell block when he was murdered - since at least one of them was most likely the killer. My point - there are plenty of people, victims and perpetrators still alive that could be part of an investigation that could reveal the real deal - never mind the banks that were involved, pilots, servants, etc etc… - and our intelligence agencies that could be made to heel - including all the NSA captured transmissions that could be brought forth and analyzed. And how about Ms. Maxwell herself - in jail for a crime that the administration says never happened re: Epstein. So no excuse. As far as I am concerned, Trumps actions re: Epstein and re: Israel/Gaza/Iran and Warp Speed and his ongoing denial of the damage he caused with the clot shots, proves to me that he cannot be trusted at all, that he is compromised, and on the most important issues, we can not depend on him to stand for justice and truth, and perform as promised. Besides being a blustering ego-maniac, narcissistic Braggadocio. (Hey I’ll just make a few calls and end all wars - Really! - you self-absorbed arrogant f***). Never trust anyone who is obsessed with gold palaces. Would Trump resign, rather than release the Epstein files? JON RAPPOPORT JUL 16 Who covered up the Epstein evidence? Remember the obvious record. It’s not just Trump. Epstein was arrested on his first charge in Florida, on July 27, 2006. Since that time, until Epstein’s death on August 10, 2019, and until now, authorities have had the opportunity to examine all the records they seized from multiple Epstein residences on multiple occasions. W Bush was President. Obama was President. Trump was President. Biden was President. Trump was President again. Four Presidents. Both political parties. Both parties were intent on covering up the Epstein pedophile network. There was also indirect cover for Epstein. Over the years, he funded a number of academic projects. The recipients (e.g., Harvard, MIT, the Santa Fe Institute, the Edge Foundation) provided him with legitimacy, and individual researchers did the same. In all the years from 2006 to now, the media never dug deeply into Epstein and his network. The Mossad (and probably other intelligence agencies) did what they could to protect Epstein. And there are people whose names we’ll never know who used their power to keep the full Epstein story under wraps. There is one thing that distinguishes Trump from the other Presidents. Over and over and over, he promised overall transparency in his administration. He made it an issue beyond anything the other Presidents dared to. And now we have this cover-up. Nevertheless, none of the other Presidents should be let off the hook. Remember that if Trump meets a Watergate moment. Would he resign, rather than release the Epstein files? It’s possible. He could say, “All right, if you don’t want me, I’ll go home.” His last enraged accusation against his critics, especially those in the MAGA movement. If things keep getting worse for him now, he could use that as a threat. Hoping, of course, for a massive outpouring of support. “No, don’t, Mr. President! Stay!” “All right. I’ll fight to the end. The MAGA movement is the greatest revolution in the history of the world. And I’m its President.” Followed by, “I guess you didn’t want to see America fall apart in my absence and go back to the dark age of Biden. I don’t blame you.” And Vice President JD Vance would think, “What am I, chopped liver? Trump believes I’m some lame-ass loser who couldn’t take over the Oval?” Trump can oversell in all directions. He exaggerates his every achievement. And he can also declare how losing him as President would mean the end of the world for all time. Right now, the reality is he’s playing with fire. The Epstein scandal is so huge in its dimensions, and has destroyed so many young lives… And he’s determined to make it into NOTHING. Rape, torture, blackmail, extortion, on an international scale. And he keeps saying it’s nothing. He thinks he has the power to make people believe anything? Believe exactly what he tells them? His playbook is, never admit guilt, and attack. Bloated pride is one thing, but he’s now deep in the swamp with the creatures. -- Jon Rappoport harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe 2 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts