I Just Met A Heavyweight Intellect - Jennifer Marohasy harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in I Just Met A Heavyweight Intellect - Jennifer Marohasy I am sharing her recent substack post by permission. It is interesting how so much of what affects us is a product of lies - perpetrated by a relatively small community of dependable liars . harry blazer Jul 09, 2025 2 2 Share The Epstein Files (Part 1) John Micklethwait versus Willis Eschenbach JENNIFER MAROHASY JUL 08, 2025 I have been waiting for the release of the Epstein files; I was particularly keen to learn more about John Micklethwait. He is on a flight list to that island. Everyone is listed alphabetically so when you scroll through you see: Ghislaine Maxwell Kevin Maxwell John Micklethwait … It seems we are unlikely to learn much more about all of that. We were promised that with the election of Donald Trump so much would become public, but the Trump Administration has been quiet about the extent of the ‘catastrophic climate change’ deceit, and now the rest of the Epstein files and video don’t exist either, it seems. That flight list came out in about 2019. Ten years before that there was the Climatic Research Unit email controversy (also known as &quot;Climategate&quot;) back in November 2009, with the hacking of a server at the Climatic Research Unit (CRU) at the University of East Anglia. The story was broken by Anthony Watts, with Willis Eschenbach providing important content. Eschenbach did some particularly good detective work, showing the extent to which the early temperature record for Darwin in Northern Australia had been remodelled, as just one example; remodelled so that the cooling of the temperatures so obvious in the early 20 th Century historical record was entirely changed. I have written a lot about the integrity of this temperature record for Darwin, the care that went into the origin measurements with the original recording station established by Charles Todd who oversaw the construction of the overland telegraph from Adelaide to Darwin with connections on to Jakarta and London, back in the 1870s. At the time of the bombing of Darwin in 1941 recordings were being made daily by Hurtle Bald. Then, back in late 2009, on the eve of one of those IPCC conferences, the mainstream media went into overdrive least everyday people become aware of how much they have been lied to when it comes to the official temperature records that do not show slow and steady increase since the Industrial Revolution. With that list not now being made public, with it seems the new Trump administration on the side of John Micklethwait et al., it seems Willis Eschenbach and his good work will never be properly appreciated. It now seems a waste of time for me to hold back the publication of my book on the remodelling of the temperature records, and how this can actually be linked to British royalty and a corrupt international media. Of course, Ghislaine Maxwell’s father was involved with the British media. This last month, it feels a little like back in November 2019 when the “Climategate Emails” became public, and suddenly so many of us thought the conspiracy that is human-caused catastrophic climate change would be exposed and then the lid came down hard on us. I am writing a book about all of this. I was born in Darwin, so I have always been particularly interested in the history of this city, in the very north of Australia. The section about the bombing of Darwin and how this was used as an excuse for changing the measurements before February 19, 1942, it begins: If we consider the first official Darwin maximum temperature as recorded at the Darwin PO on January 1, 1910, it is 34.2C. But in the first published reconstruction of what is known as ACORN-SAT it is 33.8C. To be clear the temperature has been cooled by 0.4C. Then in 2018, all these already homogenised temperatures were changed again, in the case of the maximum temperature for Darwin as recorded on January 1, 1910, it was cooled by a further 1C, becoming 32.8C. To be clear, while the temperature as officially recorded at Darwin on January 1, 1910, was 34.2C, in the official record this had become 32.8 – a difference of 1.4C. This remodelling, undertaken by Blair Trewin, of all the temperature series comprising the official ACORN-SAT database back in 2018 had the effect of increasing the rate of warming for Australia by 23 percent. According to an article in The Economist magazine, a key reason for needing to change the early record is because of a ‘change in the screening’. Specifically, the 2009 article claims: “... the main factor appears to be a change in screening. The new station located at Darwin airport from January 1941 used a standard Stevenson screen. However, the previous station at Darwin PO did not have a Stevenson screen. Instead, the instrument was mounted on a horizontal enclosure without a back or sides. The postmaster had to move it during the day so the direct tropical sun didn’t strike it! Obviously, if he forgot or was too busy, the temperature reading were a hell of a lot hotter than it really was!” End of quote. This information is not attributed to any particular official source – and is entirely invented. A Stevenson screen was installed at Darwin PO in 1894. The historically accurate (actual measurements) for Darwin show a cooling in the maximum temperatures of nearly 2 degrees Celsius from 1895 to 1941: this is for the period when temperatures were recorded in a Stevenson screen at the post office. This cooling is changed to warming in the official record. I was thinking about that article in The Economist magazine, which at the time was likely edited, if not written by John Micklethwait as I lay in bed that morning. It was some years later that I discovered how close Micklethwait is to the British Royal Family, and the elites more generally at that time. How he might have been inclined to do their bidding. The timing of that article in The Economist magazine, coming on the back of the infamous Climategate emails was exquisite for all the wrong reasons if you care about the integrity of temperature measurements. I feel asleep thinking about all of this. How misleading the article in The Economist was, how I had been unable to get anything done about the untruths, and how it denied the history of Hurtle Bald who was in-charge of the Darwin post office on February 19, 1942, when that building received a direct hit from a Japanese bomber. That day when Darwin was obliterated, when it burnt-up not from the Sun but from the war. Hurtle was 47 and is buried in the Adelaide River War Cemetery. He is part of my history. I was born in Darwin, I grew-up just to the south at a place called Coomalie Creek, not far from where Hurtle Bald is buried, and hundreds of other men who died in the bombing of Darwin on February 19, 1942. I feel asleep, that morning with my mind remembering the airstrip at Coomalie Creek, on our farm, that became the airfield for the allied forces for the entire North West Pacific after Darwin was razed and burnt. END OF QUOTE FROM MY BOOK MANUSCRIPT You can read more about the remodelling of Darwin’s Temperatures at a 2019 blog that I wrote with some charts, here: https://jennifermarohasy.com/2019/02/changes-to-darwins-climate-history-are-not-logical/ . It has been impossible to get anything about this published in the peer-reviewed technical literature. I shall be writing more about this, including about a research paper I almost managed to get published back in 2015, only for it to be withdrawn as that journal was going to press. Failed to render LaTeX expression — no expression found Share Failed to render LaTeX expression — no expression found Jennifer Marohasy's Counterpoints & Storybooks is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Failed to render LaTeX expression — no expression found 2 2 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Olde Edo Jul 9, 2025 Fascinating narrative -- many thanks for sharing this! There is so much trickery and subterfuge involved in the climate narrative that it must be very labor-intensive to sift through the literature and data to bring out the truth to light of day, and I salute you for your tenacity and integrity. Also, very much looking forward to your book when it becomes available. I hope it will be distributed and read far and wide--I believe the lies of the carbon-tax, population-reduction, anti-cow, bury-the-trees, inbred, psychopathic oligarchs are becoming evident to more and more people (many of whom will unfortunately be unnaturally short-lived due to the mRNA bioweapon mandated for their &quot;safety&quot;), and all the TRUE data that can be made available will cumulatively help sway opinion back toward science and away from propaganda. Thanks again, and best wishes! Reply Share Jennifer Marohasy Jul 9, 2025 thanks so much for posting this. Reply Share Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts