Celia Farber On The Theme of Evil - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Celia Farber On The Theme of Evil With reference to Rudolf Steiner as well harry blazer Jul 08, 2025 Share &quot;One Will See People Coming Up To One And One Will Not Be Able To Believe That They Are Really Human Beings.&quot; Rudolf Steiner Wrote About &quot;Sorat.&quot; A Sun Demon Characterized By &quot;Outbursts Of Rage Against The Spiritual.&quot; Why Mockery Is A Sign Of Sorat-ism. CELIA FARBER harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe JUL 8 “It is basically possession by sun demons which is at work in the materialism of human beings.” I am not a Steiner devotee, or defender, but I take his writings as part of a vital map that I sometimes consult, usually resulting in overwhelm. (Rudolf Steiner archive here. ) I look for people who understand the very real and present dangers of secular materialism, including in “science.” I try to avoid people with aborted souls. But these days, I mostly avoid most people, in case I get fooled again, or somebody switches on me. Richard used to say, “Celia, let’s not try to understand demons, or pretend to be demon slayers.” We knew a man who was killed by them, or so he said, as he was dying. Fo this reason he refused medical treatment. I won’t name him, you would not know who he was anyway, but he was the one who claimed and maybe had, the highest insights in our circles into this whole matter. What we know about “demons” is they seek at all times to break human bonds of love and fidelity. They love rudeness, coldness of heart, self importance, cruelty, mockery, and especially betrayal. Sheer kindness, respect for others, and fidelity (where appropriate,) may be the only things worth cultivating. We can’t effect the “big picture” or big agenda. “It is basically possession by sun demons which is at work in the materialism of human beings.” I asked Grok, well aware of the irony, to explain the difference between Ahriman and Sorat, according to Rudolf Steiner: I’ve been tracking this “annihilation of the human “I” “ for decades. AIDS and Covid were Sorat projects. Their chief architects were “Sorat Men.” It does no good to approach these things as mere scientific miscarriage. They only deploy “science” toward the goal of “absolute spiritual destruction.” Anybody who is still approaching this as mere scientific miscarriage is engaged in wishful thinking, at best, and at worst, promoting spiritual illiteracy by holding out the false light of the other side of the scientific coins. To what does it lead? Is humanity helped by more denial of the soul’s needs? I repeat myself. RESTACK harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts