A Little More On David Hughes and Omniwar - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in A Little More On David Hughes and Omniwar A Small Segment From His Interview on Solair.com with a Link to the Complete Interview harry blazer Jul 06, 2025 Share Fitts: He has now published an amazing Omniwar-Exposing and Ending the Invisible Attack on Humanity for The Solari Report . We are publishing this as harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe the theme for the Second Quarter Wrap Up . I can't thank you enough for this because it really integrates so many different themes that we have been exploring, and, of course, we were part of the Patrick Woods livestream symposium that you, Alyssa Johnson, and Daniel Brody did on Omniwar . I've encouraged everyone to watch that. Before we dive in, let's go through this. Describe your two books and your Substack and the Omniwar symposium because you’ve now produced a body of work that leads up to the understanding and discussion of Omniwar. I want to make sure everybody has access to that. We have book reviews on The Solari Report . Hughes: Thanks, Catherine. It's a large body of work, but in a nutshell, it's an attempt to make sense of everything that's been happening since 2020 ( Contextualizing Developments Since 2020 ). The two books lay out the big picture. COVID-19 Psychological Operations and The War for Technocracy make the argument that the COVID crisis was not really a public health crisis; it was a psychological warfare operation, and its purpose was to initiate a wider war for a new social system globally known as technocracy. The other book, Wall Street, the Nazis, and the Crimes of the Deep State, sketches many parallels between what has been taking place across the West since 2020 and what took place in 1930s Nazi Germany. Those parallels are non-accidental. It's because we are on a path to totalitarianism that has been determined for us by the transnational ruling class. The two books are very much an attempt to sound the alarm. The rest of my work on Substack covers a multitude of topics. In recent months, one of the big ones has been transhumanism, particularly the military dimension of transhumanism and longstanding plans traceable through the military intelligence literature to connect human beings to an external control grid. Wild as that may sound, there's plenty of evidence for it. As part of what's taking place now, you cannot achieve social transformation on a global scale without a world war. The argument that I make is that we are now in World War III. It doesn't look anything like World War II or World War I. Instead, it assumes the form of an Omniwar, which is the key theme of September's symposium. I and my fellow speakers get into the Omniwar in more detail there. For now, suffice it to say that the Omniwar entails weaponizing everything. It's a war waged across every conceivable domain of human life; it's a war waged by the few against the many. Its ultimate purpose is to subjugate and enslave the population through technocratic means. Here is the link to the interview on Rumble. David Hughes interview by Fitts harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts