Omniwar - by harry blazer - harry’s Substack harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Omniwar A Collaboration between the Solari Report and David A. Hughes, PhD harry blazer Jul 06, 2025 Share Catherine Austin Fitts publishes 4 Solari Reports every year as part of her website solari.com, which is perhaps the most comprehensive compendium of information about “the real deal” available to citizens . These quarterly reports are well written and researched and aesthetically exceptional in terms of design. The most recent is entitled Omniwar and features the perspective and research of David A. Hughes. I am providing below the executive summary that appears for subscribers on the Solari.com website. There is information at the bottom about how you can subscribe to Solari.com. But there is also an address where you could write to see if you can get a copy of just this report. This is a very significant report. There is also information within the summary about where to access more of Dr. Hughes’ commentaries. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe The biggest challenge and most significant issue for humanity is the Transhumanist Agenda that is being foisted on all humans at a mind numbing rate. In fact, Trump has been a major facilitator of what is the ultimate coup against homo sapiens sapiens. FYI: 2030 is a critical target. the Solari Report E X E CU T I VE SUMMAR Y OMNIWAR Warfighting strategies, tactics, and weapons have undergone a significant metamorphosis in the 21st century in comparison with the “hot” wars of centuries past. The term used by scholar David A. Hughes, PhD to describe this phenomenon is “Omniwar,” which he defines as war waged “in every conceivable domain” by atransnational ruling class (“the few”) against the rest of humanity (“the many”). Crucially, “the many” do not recognize themselves as targets due to the largely clandestine tactics used and a concerted effort to build in “plausible deniability.” In the seven-part essay that makes up the bulk of Solari’s report on Omniwar, Hughes explains: The principal goal of Omniwar, namely, to replace the existing control system with global technocracy — a governance system “hostile to freedom” and characterized by “the scientific management of everyone and everything.” Why it is no exaggeration to characterize the Omniwar as World War III. The concepts of the “Internet of BioNanoThings” and “network-centric warfare.” Military plans and technologies to target the human brain. The military underpinnings of transhumanism’s putative human “upgrades.” Injectable and other mechanisms to deliver nano- and other technologies viewed as a route to “bioengineer” humanity. The importance of resisting the Omniwar and maintaining a positive vision for the future. As Hughes outlines at the front end of his essay, the year 2020 marked an inflection point for the Omniwar strategy and an escalation in the shift away from existing — and failing— paradigms of governance that, from the ruling class’s perspective, are “no longer fit for purpose.” The so-called “pandemic” provided the excuse to speed up movement towardan all-digital financial system and a “novel, biodigital form of totalitarianism” that aspires to hook up human brains and bodies to a global information grid churning out data managed by government contractors such as “big-data analytics” firm Palantir. The “logic” of the Omniwar, says Hughes, “is that everything that can be weaponized against the public…will be weaponized.” Specifically, that means that this novel form of warfare is playing out in realms as wide-ranging as economics, finance, information, psychology, biology, and neurology, and also involves debasement or subversion of food, weather, health care, religion, and the electromagnetic environment. Hughes’s two 2024 books — “Covid-19,” Psychological Operations, and the War forTechnocracy, Volume 1 (Palgrave Macmillan) and Wall Street, the Nazis, and the Crimes of the Deep State (Skyhorse Publishing) — and his writings and interviews on Substack dhughes.substack.com provide additional, and invaluable, insights on the history, ideology, and technologies underlying the Omniwar. Although the implications of Hughes’s findings — “that we are all now combatants in World War III, like it or not” — are admittedly sobering, his report provides an important step toward fighting back, for Hughes agrees with Catherine Austin Fitts that to “halt the plan that would have us spending our lives in digital concentration camps, we first need to see it.” Citing the public’s primary advantages — our superior numbers and our commitment to freedom — he encourages readers to eschew defeatism and passivity and “summon the moral courage to take action.” In her Introduction to Omniwar, titled “The U.S. Misallocation of Capital,” Fitts agrees that the research so meticulously assembled and presented by Hughes is a call to action. She notes that we are in “one of the greatest periods of capital misallocation in the history of our world,” with the Omniwar’s perpetrators going on a plunder rampage and continually sabotaging anyone who tries — as Fitts once did — to build “win-win” economic momentum in local communities. Each of us, says Fitts, has the power to redeploy our capital — including our time, savings, investments, and giving — toward productive investments “that shift the timeline out of this descent into tyranny and human and ecological suicide.” If we step up to the plate, Fitts and Hughes are both confident that it is not too late to send things in a more civilized and rewarding direction — freeing “our minds and consciousness to convert and transform the onslaught of invasive, weaponized technology into productive responses that instead apply powerful technology to unleash a renaissance of freedom, new wealth, and new possibilities.” The Solari Report is published by: Solari, Inc. P. O. Box 157 Hickory Valley, TN 38042 USA solari.com The Solari Report is available on subscription—monthly, six-monthly, and annual (Digital-Only or Digital+Print). Each subscription plan provides access to the complete online archive of premium content, including Commentaries, Quarterly and Annual Wrap Ups, and Audio and Video resources. Find out more at solari.com. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts