You Can&#x27;t Neuter the Deep State if... - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in You Can't Neuter the Deep State if... ...If You Are Doing Their Bidding harry blazer Jun 18, 2025 1 Share Well as it turns out, it seems that Trump was much more of an advocate for the Israeli aggression against Iran that he let on. And while claiming to be working for peace behind the scenes and pushing Netanyahu to be restrained, he obviously was being duplicitous, because by the end he was mirroring all of the Israeli talking points, including insisting on NO Iranian enrichment whatsoever. And let me ask a simple question. Who gave Israel and the USA the authority to tell any other country that they don’t have the right to develop a nuclear weapon - which Iran was willing to agree not to do nonetheless. So the biggest bully in the Middle East (Israel) can have nuclear weapons and never admit to having them so they can be exempt of any treaties regarding their use; and the only country that ever used them against another, the USA, killing and maiming 100’s of thousands of civilians can have them - but Iran can’t. And then if Iran doesn’t agree to stop all enrichment, then the two bullies feel entitled to bomb and kill Iran into submission. Mobsters! harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Not sure what happens to people when they become president. I think the Deep State must shoot them with a special ray gun or put something in their food to make them go to the Dark Side. It is now clear that Trump cannot be trusted and is a deeply flawed human. David Icke was the only one that was calling him out from the start. Trump created irreparable harm through operation Warp Speed for which he was never repentant in the least and now he is creating irreparable harm by partnering with the homicidal Netanyahu (over both Gaza and Iran). And as disastrous as both of those events will be viewed, they will probably pale in comparison to the many ways he is facilitating the Transhumanist Agenda - the reengineering of all human beings on the planet. What do you expect from the narcissistic star of “The Apprentice”? And what do you expect when the alternative is Hillary Clinton or Joe Biden or Kamala Harris? As I said in a previous post: You cannot have a Trillion Dollar Defense Budget and have peace. You cannot have 18 intelligence agencies and have peace. I need to add: You cannot have a president that does the bidding of the Neocon Riddled Deep State and homicidal criminal maniacs like Netanyahu or Zelensky and have peace. And you can’t have peace when the leader of the USA can’t be trusted, by friend or foe - or by its own citizenry. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe 1 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Medical Truth Podcast Jun 18, 2025 I agree; Mr. Operation Warp Speed is on a short leash with the CIA running the show! Trumpty Dumpty is part of the plan. He talks a good talk along with Musk and DOGE; however, no one will be held accountable with indictments, arrests, and jail time for the fraud, waste, and abuse of taxpayers' money. As for Bondi and Patel and the &quot;ACTUAL&quot; names of the pedophiles on Epsteins list, as well as the 450K missing children who are being sex trafficked, nothing will be done, and he continues to support the mRNA bio-weapon and appoints people on his administration that support the poison shots through big pharma. I say Trumpy is full of shit and a blowhard!! As for the DemonRats and RepubTurds, they are a waste of human flesh since they have been bought and paid for by the Central Banks since 1913. Unfortunately, they are leading the country down a path of corruption in the name of money and power. Reply Share Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts