I Warned You - by harry blazer - harry’s Substack harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in I Warned You Israel's Attack on Iran Confirms That The Deep State Is In Charge harry blazer Jun 13, 2025 3 3 2 Share Trump is on the verge of getting a peace agreement with Iran. Netanyahu defies Trump and attacks Iran. Trump was helping to facilitate an agreement in the Ukraine/Russia conflict. Zelensky defies Trump and attacks Russia’s nuclear bombers. Kennedy was close to achieving serious peace with the Russians and was committed to getting out of Vietnam. He gets his head blown off and the Vietnam War goes on for years and we in the end lose, after many billions of dollars was squandered and immense US casualties. A special forces team enters Afghanistan and with the help of locals, defeats the Taliban within weeks. Then the US Army is sent in and the war goes on for almost two decades at a cost of over $2 Trillion and the Taliban end up winning. Eisenhower was on the verge of peace with the Russians and then his orders to suspend U2 flights are defied and Gary Powers U2 incident is orchestrated, derailing the peace talks. The Cold War continues along with immense expenditures. You cannot have a Trillion Dollar Defense Budget and have peace. You cannot have 18 intelligence agencies and have peace. You would think that Trump would have learned from his first term about the hidden forces that are committed to endless war and that have the ability and will to overpower anything that gets in its way. Obviously Zelensky and Netanyahu felt totally comfortable defying the President of the United States. What gave them that confidence - The Deep State. Until the Deep State and the Breakaway Civilization are neutered, they will ultimately be the ones in control - as they are today. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe 3 3 2 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks psychoNWO Aug 17 Zooming out... https://alexkrainer.substack.com/ Reply Share Bruno Jun 13, 2025 Dulles Reply Share 1 reply by harry blazer 1 more comment... Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts