The Secret To World Peace - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in The Secret To World Peace Don't Show Up For War harry blazer Jun 11, 2025 Share I was a conscientious objector during the Vietnam War. Officially. And I was very effective at my draft interview at convincing the interviewer that I would not make a very good soldier and that it would not be worth their trouble to try to punish me for that. I guess they figured out they had better ways to spend their resources and efforts. I never felt comfortable allowing others to make the decision for me as to whom I should maim or kill, while being put in a position to be maimed and killed myself. That’s the primary reason I never thought about joining the military. It’s one thing to be part of a state militia that is called up to defend the country from invasion, as the constitution envisioned things. It’s another to participate in foreign imperialistic ventures, one of the primary reasons our founding fathers were against having a permanent, standing army. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe So after analyzing what was being said about Vietnam and by whom, I made the decision that the whole thesis about why we should kill people in southeast Asia was bogus from the start. So I wasn’t gonna go - whatever it took. As it turns out, Mohammed Ali felt the same way. He expressed his objections, that reflected mine as well, quite eloquently: “I ain’t got no quarrel with them Viet Cong”. And we both made our choices before I had learned from Prouty that the Viet Cong were actually southerners that were fighting to reclaim the land that they were forced off of by the mass immigration of 1 million N. Vietnamese into the south - that was master- minded by the U.S.. I am big on individuals being responsible and accountable, to include taking the responsibility to be properly informed so they can make choices that help themselves and don’t harm others. I am also big on individual freedom. Freedom and making informed intelligent choices kind of go hand and hand in my opinion. So in the end, wars don’t happen, especially unjust wars, if people don’t show up - if enough individuals make an informed, intelligent decision not to participate. Especially since, as Bertrand Russell noted, “War does not determine who is right - only who is left.” So it is helpful and hopeful regarding the possibility for peace and justice in Gaza, that 41 Israeli Intelligence and Cyber Officers publicly declared that the Israeli’s government’s orders are now illegal, that the government has lost “public and moral legitimacy” and they ain’t gonna play any more. This same option is available to US soldiers, referred to as a &quot;duty to disobey,&quot; which is empowered by the Uniform Code of Military Justice. That “duty to disobey” exists where: the order is &quot;contrary to the constitution&quot; or &quot;the laws of the United States.&quot; the order is &quot;patently illegal, ... such as one that directs the commission of a crime.&quot; Doing what is right and not the unconscionable is a duty we can all avail ourselves of at anytime and every time. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts