Punch Line On Ukraine and Israel - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Punch Line On Ukraine and Israel harry blazer Jun 06, 2025 Share Now that you have spent a little time learning about the Deep State from me (see my three previous essays), I want to deliver some punch lines about the recent events in Ukraine and Israel. UKRAINE harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe The current Ukrainian conflict was manufactured by our Deep State, an OP that was put into effect almost 10 years ago. Our Deep State sponsored a coup against the elected Ukranian government. They financed the campaign of a “peace candidate” (Zelensky) who with the encouragement and facilitation of NATO, the EU and the US, pushed all of Russia’s buttons to get the Russians to invade - and finally they did. That then gave the US and EU the excuse to freeze some $300 billion of Russian financial assets and impose economic sanctions. There have been US military advisors, and mercenaries in Ukraine since the start of this war. US has supported Ukraine with intelligence, training and armaments. And lots of money, a portion of which always finds its way back to the Deep State. War is a primary source of income for the Deep State (along with Drugs, Financial Fraud, Theft and Sex Trafficking). These recent drone attacks were sponsored by our Deep State. Planning was underway before Trump got into office. Trump claims he didn’t know about it. That’s typical for how the Deep State operates. Since Trump has been in office, the Deep State’s co-conspirators in Congress, the Military, the Intelligence agencies and Europe/NATO have been stirring the pot, encouraging Zelensky to keep the war going, undermining Trump’s peace initiatives. The drone attack happened just as serious peace talks were underway, in order to derail that effort. That’s typical for how the Deep State operates (as you have learned). Impossible that an operation of this scale, complexity and long-term planning was not on the radar of the intelligence agencies in this country and Europe. No way given the details of this OP that have been revealed, that Ukraine did not get help from at least our Deep State and most likely the EU and NATO as well. Supposedly, 1/3 of one part of Russia’s strategic nuclear triad was destroyed. Another indication of Deep State involvement. The “Triad” in our country as well consists of nuclear capable Planes, Ships and Land-based Missiles. You could add space-based weapons as a 4th capability, but no one talks about it. Going after Russia’s strategic bombers had little merit vis a vis the current conflict, which Russia is winning handily. But it makes sense in terms of a long standing strategy to undermine Russian influence and sovereignty and sow internal strife. Russia under Putin has been despised by the West since he came to power because he has resisted the Western Central Bankers and stopped their rape of Russia in cahoots with Russian oligarchs. The Deep State and the Central Bankers they serve do not appreciate those that do not abide. The recent attempt on his life demonstrates that. ISRAEL Israel helped to create Hamas as a counter to Yasser Arafat’s PLO years ago. It metastasized with Israel’s help. (Mirror image of how we facilitated the growth of Al Qaeda) Impossible that the October 7th attack by Hamas was a surprise attack. It was a facilitated attack by Israel’s Deep State. Many tell-tale signs. The facilitation had two primary purposes. To impede the investigation into and prosecution of Netanyahu’s criminal activities; and to provide a pretext for the invasion and subsequent genocide of the Palestinians in Gaza. As with our 9-11 OP where over 3000 citizens were sacrificed to facilitate the Middle East and Eurasia agendas of the Bush Jr./Cheney administration in cahoots with the Deep State, 100’s of Israeli citizens were sacrificed by their leadership as part of their Oct 7th OP. I had never been to Israel until about 10 years ago. I had planned to go for a week but ended up staying just 2 days, because I couldn’t stand it. I started out in Tel Aviv. I felt much more comfortable in the Arab neighborhoods of Tel Aviv than the Jewish ones. After a day, I hired a driver to take me to Jerusalem. I felt no aura of holiness or spirituality in Jerusalem. It was like a religious Disney Land. On the ride from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, I saw to my left for miles along the highway, a continuous concrete wall that was 30? 40? 50? feet high. It was immense. It was along a portion of the West Bank border, built to contain West Bank Palestinians. Gaza was a similar internment settlement but to the Southeast. The largest prison camps in the world. I was raised Jewish. I am ashamed, outraged and disgusted in the deepest ways possible over how the Israeli’s have abused the Palestinians over the years. It started when the Jewish State of Israel was created out of thin air by the UN and forced upon the populations that had resided there for centuries. This recent OP against the Palestinians in Gaza represents another dimension of evil. It shows that without the proper introspection, it is easy for humans and a nation to repeat the behaviors they despise. The Israelis, as an incarnation of the Nazis, had come to Gaza. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts