Insights Into The Deep State - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Insights Into The Deep State By Someone Who Knows A Lot About It harry blazer May 31, 2025 1 Share I had an association with Catherine Austin Fitts for about 17 years. At one point I was a substantial contributor to her Solari.com reports. Learned a lot from the relationship. At one point she mentioned that I had one of the most complete libraries on the Deep State and Black World of any civilian she had met. I like to learn. This is a short segment (11minutes) that will give you a decent overview of some of the structural components of the Deep State. Many people refer to the Deep State as the entrenched bureaucracy. That is false in my opinion. The Deep State has profound understanding of how our government and many others function and uses what it needs to (including the “bureaucracy”) to accomplish its strategic and tactical agendas. It also is imbedded deeply in all functional areas of the government and can almost always insert players to facilitate and get rid of people that are interfering or are potential threats as needed. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Here is my definition of the Deep State that I posted previously: A Consortium of military, industrial/technological, banking, intelligence, political, social, judicial and secret society assets that cohere as needed to expand power, influence and control over others, without regard for the written law or ethical/social norms, for the aggrandizement of themselves and/or their tribe or those they serve in accordance with the ideologies (rationalizations) to which they subscribe - and that has mastery of PRS (Problem, Reaction, Solution). I added social to the list above from my previous posting because the Deep State can’t function without the support of society whether achieved through consent, manipulation and mind control, carrots or sticks. I was thinking about adding NGO’s to the list but I view those as just another mechanism among many that is used to project power and influence - and manage financial resources. Fitts on Money & Deep State harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe 1 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts