A Quick Summary of Clifford Carnicom&#x27;s Findings on &quot;Morgellons&quot; harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in A Quick Summary of Clifford Carnicom's Findings on &quot;Morgellons&quot; Previously posted under my commentaries to Karen Kingston addressing her afflictions harry blazer May 23, 2025 2 3 Share So called &quot;Morgellons&quot; was not even recognized as a disease until somewhat recently. In the past, folks with symptoms were thought to be delusional. Eventually, symptoms became too widespread to ignore or dismiss as psychosomatic. But even today, most people and medical professionals view it only as a skin affliction. That is totally fallacious. The skin eruptions in their various forms are an indication of a very serious systemic disorder. I am the only person that went over all of Clifford Carnicom's legacy research in person with him (up to about 4 years ago). That culminated in 4 interviews (which you can find on Bitchute - link below) and an interview with him, Elana Freeland, Dr. David Nixon and Dr. Ana Mihalcea a few years ago, which is also on Bitchute (link below). The following is key to understand. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe The aerial spraying that has been going on for almost three decades and that has come to be viewed as geo-engineering, is actually much more serious. It is bioengineering on a grand scale. Clifford has been trying to make the world understand this for several decades. Through his analysis of the residues he collected from the spraying, he found biologics, often in the form of filaments, that contained sub-micron coccus shaped entities that he described as Cross Domain Bacteria. He named it that because of its bacterial like coccus shape but also because, unlike anything else on the planet, it exhibited characteristics from the three domains of life - Bacteria, Archaea, Eukarya. Most of his work since that discovery has been focused on analyzing the CDB using many different analytical protocols. Astonishing work given his limited resources. If anyone deserves a Nobel Prize, it is he. So here is the punchline: The filaments that he discovered in the atmospheric residue were identical to those recovered from &quot;Morgellans&quot; lesions!!! Since the spraying was a global operation and if nothing else due to atmospheric diffusion, it would be silly to assume that this stuff is not everywhere - and in every one of us and perhaps every life form. In fact, everywhere Clifford looked, he found these biologics and their metabolites. So we all have this stuff in us. The question is, how is it that in some people, it blows up, with skin eruptions being one of the indicators that it has gone rogue. Two other facts to consider: 1) it seems that the bioweapon jab contains these biologics as well. So not content to just have us ingest and inhale these biologics, there was a need it seems to inject as many of us as possible with this stuff. 2) Clifford discovered a &quot;kill switch&quot; (which is described in my Part 4 interview with him). This is where exponential growth of this organism is triggered by small amounts of current. Life on this planet has been intentionally infected, through aerosol dispersion and the Covid &quot;vaccine&quot; with a novel synthetically created biological entity that can be triggered externally to undergo explosive, exponential growth. This is our reality. And Clifford's work proves it definitively. Carnicom Interviews on Bitchute Carnicom, Freeland, Nixon, Mihalcea interview harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe 2 3 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Lara W. Aug 10 Edited There was a follow up interview for the Solari report. It covers much of the same information, but here Carnicom has some leads to remedy the infection. He is calling out for doctors and nutritionists to develop protocols based on his findings. Global Bioengineering: A History of Blood Clotting with Clifford Carnicom https://solari.com/global-bioengineering-a-history-of-blood-clotting-with-clifford-carnicom/ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kTqrmkRlwM8 Reply Share 2 replies by harry blazer 2 more comments... Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts