Have You Heard of Diamond v. Chakrabarty - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Have You Heard of Diamond v. Chakrabarty It's Heard of You harry blazer May 22, 2025 1 10 Share Diamond v. Chakrabarty is the Supreme Court Case from 1980 that launched the biotech industry - you know GMO’s, synthetic mRNA shots, Transhumanism! While the Patent Office and the courts have always maintained that you can’t patent life, they allowed life that has been transformed in a novel way for a specific purpose to be patented. (You also can’t patent laws of nature, physical phenomena and abstract ideas.) This decision passed 5 to 4. So basically, life is allowed to be transformed on this planet based on one Supreme Court vote (that went the wrong way in my opinion). The dissenting opinion was based on a separation of powers issue, so more of a technical objection vs. dealing with the fundamental problem. Ultimately, given how governance is structured, it is up to Congress to stop the madness. I don’t generally trust Wikipedia anymore since it is a bona fide propaganda arm of the Deep State, but they seem to have gotten this right. So here is a link so you can learn the details. Wikipedia on Diamond v Chakrabarty harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe What follows below are three other articles that put more meat on the bone. Article One is from a friend, Jon Rappoport, that talks about how, in combination with AI, life can be permanently altered through the creation of millions of patentable “novel” proteins. Proteins are the primary building blocks of organic structures. Article Two gives more info on what can be patented and why/why not. Article Three discusses the most recent Supreme Court case (and related cases) on this topic, which extends the rights of folks to mess with life. I have included links for each article along with the complete text. A text may be truncated given the length of this posting but according to substack: If the newsletter is truncated in an email, readers can click on &quot;View entire message&quot; and they'll be able to view the entire post in their email app. Using AI, millions of new proteins are possible; NONE of them exist in Nature JON RAPPOPORT MAY 22 I continue to report on AI systems and companies most people have never heard of. I’m not just giving you big generalities about AI. I’ve got the receipts. Are you aware of AlphaFold, ESMFold, Chroma, EvolutionaryScale, ESM3? They’re in the process of trying to change the world. ESMFold, owned by Zuckerberg’s Meta, did ONE investigative run and came up with 700 MILLION potential new proteins. ESM3, an AI model, was trained on 770 BILLION protein sequences. It “simulates evolutionary processes to design novel proteins.” A biotech company, Generate: Biomedicines, came up with a novel monoclonal antibody treatment against SARS-Cov-2—a virus that doesn’t exist. That’s a pretty good trick. So…what could all these “useful” new proteins be developed for? You guessed it. Number one, cited time and time again is: medical drug development. This would apply to the companies and systems I just listed above, and many more such businesses. Isomorphic Labs, which does “AI design of new drugs,” is partnering with Eli Lilly and Novartis, two Pharma giants. So far, in 2025, Isomorphic has raised $600 million in investments. Throughout the “AI-new protein” industry, all sorts of sky-blue predictions are being made. For instance, cancer therapies that are customized for each unique patient. There’s just one problem: These new proteins themselves. These non-natural proteins. Because: Placing them in the body means the body is encountering compounds it’s never encountered before. Proteins that never have existed in Nature. Therefore, many unpredictable things can happen—even after extensive safety testing. Such as: The immune system goes crazy. Massive inflammation. The immune system might turn around and attack itself. Anaphylaxis. The new proteins could bind to “unintended targets” in the body. Result: a poisonous effect. And/or chaos in cellular activity. Or natural and needed proteins already in the body could be broken apart. The new proteins could “misfold” and clump together, forming highly dangerous blockages. These and other life-threatening effects might be sudden, or they might develop, unseen, over the long term. Because, again, the body has never encountered these novel proteins. The new proteins might be passed from person to person, and in the environment they might disrupt centuries of ecological stability. The AI companies don’t care about any of this. They and their Pharma clients and partners are engaged in a mad Gold Rush. The absurd kicker? If by some miracle (I’d bet against it) they stumbled on a cancer cure, do you really think they’d release it to the public and destroy the whole trillion-dollar cancer industry? It’s likely AI will be deployed to, ahem, “brilliantly discover important new disease conditions” which no one could have imagined existed…and then utilize new proteins to alleviate those “diseases.” The medical cartel exists on the basis of TREATING people, not eliminating the need for patients. Clearing the decks of illness via vast cures is not on their wish list. The glossy predictions about AI and the future of medicine are…CONDITIONAL. “We’re not looking to produce radiant health. That’s the myth we sell.” The cartel is a BUSINESS. -- Jon Rappoport Link For Article below Can I Patent Anything? According to federal patent laws, a patent is given to an inventor in order to exclude others from “making, using, offering for sale, and/or selling the invention” in the United States. In other words, a patent is given to an inventor in order to protect their invention. Patents generally exist for twenty years, and can be applied to any invention in any field of technology. Patents are part of international agreements with the World Trade Organization (WTO); as such, member nations of the organization are expected to recognize and enforce legal patents. Generally speaking, in order to receive a patent from the U.S. Patent and Trademark office, the invention must meet the following patent requirements. It must be: New; Unique; and Generally unobvious. There are different types of patents available depending on the item that you wish to patent: Utility Patent: Generally speaking, the invention must be a process or method with: A concrete result; A machine; A chemical or biological composition of matter; and/or An invention improvement. It is important to note that in order to qualify for a utility patent, the invention must also be moderately useful. Design Patent: With few exceptions, the design must be novel, non-obvious, and nonfunctional; and Plant Patent: Plants that you create can be patented; however, the plant must be novel and non-obvious. Some examples of what cannot be patented include: Naturally occurring substances; Laws of nature; Ideas; and Calculation methods. What cannot be patented will be further discussed later on. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is the agency that is responsible for receiving applications for patents, as well as making patent determinations. An inventor must submit an application to the Patent and Trademark Office, as well as attach specific drawings and a plan of the proposed invention; they must also pay a fee. Additionally, the plan of the invention must adhere to a considerably rigid and specific form. After the application is reviewed, the Patent and Trademark Office will generally question the applicant regarding any objections that the office may have. It is important to note that as of September 2011, the inventor who first filed the patent will receive the exclusive rights. Prior to September 2011, patent protection was granted to those who first invented the technology or product. Why Can’t I Patent a Discovery I Made? To reiterate, you can patent nearly anything, except: Laws of nature; Physical phenomena; and Abstract ideas. What this means is that if you make a new and useful scientific discovery that no one else has ever thought of, you cannot get a patent on it, because you did not actually create the fact that you discovered. This is because that fact was always in existence; you were simply the first person to notice it. However, if you can create an invention that utilizes that fact, you can patent the invention. As was previously mentioned, there are different kinds of patents that can be obtained from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”). In terms of whether it is possible to patent an idea , in all instances of a patent, the object or idea must be: Distinct; Particular; and New to both the market and the patent catalog. What Cannot Be Patented? Can I Patent a Living Thing? Patent law classifies physical phenomena as products of nature. As such, if your invention occurs in nature, it is a physical phenomenon and cannot be patented. Whether you can patent a living thing largely depends on how the living thing may be classified. If your invention is a product of nature, it is considered to be excluded subject matter when getting a patent. However, if your invention does not occur naturally and can only exist through some work on your part, you may be able to get a patent. Some examples of this concept include: You cannot patent a species of mouse that you find in your laboratory; You can patent a genetically engineered mouse that you designed for use in cancer research; You cannot patent a combination of bacteria with beneficial properties, if that combination occurs somewhere else in nature; and You can patent a species of bacteria that you genetically alter in order to solve a common problem, if that form does not occur naturally elsewhere. While simply identifying a product of nature such as a gene or a hormone will not be enough to warrant a patent, if you are able to purify the product, you may be able to get a patent. This is because while genes, hormones, and other chemicals are products of nature, they do not exist naturally in isolated form. As such, if you are able to isolate, purify, or somehow alter a product of nature, you may be able to patent it. Abstract ideas are concepts such as pure mathematics and algorithms. You cannot patent a formula; however, you can patent an application of that formula. What this means is that while you cannot patent a mathematical formula that produces non repeating patterns, you can patent paper products that use that formula in order to prevent rolls of paper from sticking together. Can I Patent Software? While software functions by using algorithms and mathematics, it may be patentable if it produces a result that is both concrete and usable. However, what cannot be patented is software whose only purpose is to perform mathematical operations. As such, software that converts one set of numbers to another will not be patentable. Software that converts one set of numbers to another in order to make rubber will be considered patentable. A patent lawsuit is a specific type of lawsuit involving intellectual property laws; most patent lawsuits involve the illegal or unauthorized use of a patent or patented material, and are generally referred to as patent infringement lawsuits. Proving patent infringement is a considerably complex process that involves several steps. An example of this would be how it involves determining the scope of the patent’s protection, and examining whether the defendant infringed upon the protections. The plaintiff will also be required to prove that they suffered losses as a result of the infringement. Potential legal remedies may include patent infringement damages , which are designed to reimburse the patent holder for any losses caused by the infringement. An example of this would be how the defendant may be required to pay damages for lost profit, as well as for lost business clientele. It is important to note that the damages claims must be: Calculable; Provable, meaning not speculative in nature; and Supported by evidence. Another common remedy in a patent lawsuit would be an injunction to have the offender stop producing or using the patented material. They may be required to pull their products from a marketing line, or change a recipe or formula, and related materials may be subject to confiscation. Patent infringement defenses available to the defendant will largely depend on the circumstances of each specific case. An example of this would be how it may be a defense if the defendant can prove that they were actually authorized to use the patent or patented invention. They could do so by proving the consent of the patent holder for the usage. Other defenses may include: An invalid patent; Unfair on inequitable conduct of the plaintiff; or A delay in filing suit. Should I Contact a Patent Attorney? If you have questions regarding what can and cannot be patented, you should consult with a patent attorney . An experienced intellectual property attorney can tell you if your invention is patentable, and will guide you through the patent process. Link for Article Below Gene Patenting—The Supreme Court Finally Speaks Aaron S Kesselheim 1 , Robert M Cook-Deegan 1 , David E Winickoff 1 , Michelle M Mello 1 Author information Article notes Copyright and License information PMCID: PMC3777541 NIHMSID: NIHMS512779 PMID: 23841703 The publisher's version of this article is available at N Engl J Med Are human genes patentable? On June 13, the Supreme Court gave its long-awaited answer—a unanimous “no.” The case, Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics , 1 has generated enormous interest among medical institutions, industry organizations, patient advocacy groups, and scientists. “Life’s instructions,” James Watson asserted in one of 49 amicus curiae (friend of the court) briefs, “ought not be controlled by legal monopolies created at the whim of Congress or the courts.” For some, the gene patents were a symbol of a shrinking commons and an over-reaching patent system that traded too much monopolistic power for too little innovation. For others, the challenge to Myriad’s gene patents amounted to an attack on the intellectual property protections that fuel private investment in biomedical discovery. While ethical and policy arguments were a major feature of the debate surrounding the case, the decision focused squarely on the definitions of two codes: the genetic code and the patent code. All nine Justices on the Court agreed that the segments of DNA that make up human genes are not patentable subject matter under section 101 of the Patent Act because they are products of nature. 2 However, the Court held, molecules reverse-transcribed from messenger RNA to eliminate intron sequences——so-called complementary DNA, or cDNA—are patentable. The decisive sentence of Justice Thomas’s ruling crisply stated, “A naturally occurring DNA segment is a product of nature and not patent eligible merely because it has been isolated, but cDNA is patent eligible because it is not naturally occurring.” The decision joins a suite of recent Supreme Court cases that are reshaping patent law, with important implications for innovation in the life sciences. Here we review the Myriad Genetics case and the Court’s reasoning, and discuss the implications for health care and the biotechnology industry. Patient advocates and industry groups alike can find something to celebrate in the Court’s decision: while it will open up competition in the genetic testing arena and drive down prices, it leaves undisturbed most of the intellectual property rights on which the biotechnology industry depends. The Battle over Patenting Breast Cancer Genes The human genes at issue in the Myriad Genetics case are BRCA1 and BRCA2 . Through federally funded research dating back to the 1980s, Mary-Claire King and others identified a region of chromosome 17 that must contain a gene mutated in families with many cases of breast cancer. 3 That gene became known as BRCA1 , and it turned out to also predispose to ovarian cancer. King’s 1990 report of genetic linkage for a “breast cancer gene” set off an intense race to clone and sequence it. A team led by Mark Skolnick of the University of Utah won that race; 4 Skolnick was also a cofounder of Myriad Genetics. In 1994, Michael Stratton and others mapped another locus in chromosome 13, 5 which precipitated another furious race to identify and clone what became known as BRCA2 . That race ended in a near-tie, 6 with the Stratton group publishing in Nature 7 just a day after Myriad filed a patent application, 8 , 9 , 10 having “gotten wind” of the Stratton work. 11 At the time, Myriad successfully sought patent protection for an array of inventions: methods of analyzing genetic mutations, cDNA, and, most controversially, isolated DNA sequences ( Table 1 ). Their patent applications on BRCA1 and BRCA2 were broken into separate patents, covering different aspects of the work. These patents undergirded Myriad’s commercialization of its BRACAnalysis test for predisposition to breast cancer, which it first made available in 1996. Myriad filed subsequent patents and acquired rights to other BRCA patents by out-of-court settlements, and now states that it has 24 patents containing over 500 claims relating to this field. 12 Table 1. Types of Patents Issued to Myriad Genetics Relating to BRCA Genes Covered ClaimsType of PatentClinical UtilityCurrent StatusIsolated DNA sequences, BRCA1 and BRCA2 Composition of matterUsed in both of the above methodsInvalidatedExon-only strands of BRCA1 and BRCA2 nucleotides [cDNA]Composition of matterUsed in both of the above methodsUpheldMethod of (1) growing a transformed eukaryotic host cell containing a BRCA1 gene in the presence of a compound that might be a cancer therapeutic and (2) comparing growth rates of cancer cells in the presence and absence of the compoundMethodScreening the effectiveness of potential cancer therapeuticsUpheldMethod of comparing a patient’s isolated DNA sequence to the “wild type” BRCA1 and BRCA2 sequencesMethodDetecting whether a patient (or tumor sample) has mutations associated with breast or ovarian cancerInvalidated Open in a new tab The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and Public Patent Foundation, representing more than 20 plaintiffs, filed suit against Myriad in May 2009 in federal court for the southern district of New York. The litigation arose in large part because, in the intervening decade, a steady drumbeat of criticism had grown against Myriad’s business practices and patents on genes in general. Objections raised by public health advocates included Myriad’s restriction on certain uses of its genes in the context of research, its refusal to allow independent confirmatory testing of ambiguous initial results, 13 and the high price of Myriad’s genetic test (up to $4,000). 14 Advances in sequencing technology had made it possible for patients to have dozens of genes sequenced for less than what Myriad charged for BRCA1 and BRCA2 testing. 15 Fueling advocates’ arguments were surveys showing gene patents reduced access to testing 16 , 17 and research finding that legal restrictions on gene sequences reduced product development by up to 20–30% compared with diagnostic products arising from freely available sequences. 18 Inventors must satisfy several statutory criteria in the Patent Act to obtain patent protection, but the Myriad case focused on just one: whether the claimed inventions met the basic definition of patentable subject matter. That is, did they constitute “inventions” at all? The Patent Act defines the scope of patentable subject matter as “any new and useful process, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof.” 2 The Supreme Court has previously established that “Anything under the sun that is made by man” is patent eligible, 19 but has read into the patent statute an important implicit caveat that laws of nature, natural phenomena, and abstract ideas belong in the public domain. Judge Robert Sweet’s March 2010 summary judgment order in the Myriad case invoked longstanding Supreme Court doctrines to conclude that this caveat excluded DNA from patentability. 20 He invalidated all 15 claims challenged in 7 of Myriad’s patents. The next year, a divided panel of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (CAFC) tempered the district court’s holding. The three-judge panel unanimously affirmed Judge Sweet’s determination that Myriad could not patent its method of testing for cancer risk by comparing a patient’s isolated BRCA1 and BRCA2 sequences to the wild-type sequences. By contrast, the panel upheld Myriad’s method claim for using BRCA1/2 in screening potential cancer therapeutics and held that cDNA could be patented. Most controversially, the CAFC split 2-1 on whether “isolated” DNA molecules corresponding to sequences found in cells were patentable. 21 The two judges in the majority reached their conclusion that isolated DNA is patent eligible in different ways. Judge Lourie reasoned that the act of severing covalent bonds in the process of isolating the DNA created a new molecule, while Judge Moore argued that not only fragmentation but also the demonstrable utility of isolated DNA sequences compared to native DNA was the basis for patent eligibility. 22 Judge Bryson wrote a vigorous dissent arguing that the manmade molecules claimed were not patent eligible because they were not “markedly different” from their natural counterparts. The Supreme Court reviewed the CAFC’s decision in 2011, but sent the case back to the CAFC for reconsideration in light of a newly issued Supreme Court decision invalidating a patent on a method of diagnostic testing. 23 The CAFC did not substantively change its decision in 2012, reiterating the same logic and coming to the same 2-1 split. 24 On November 30, 2012, the Supreme Court agreed to hear arguments on one question only: are human genes patentable? Supreme Court Decision To answer this question, the Supreme Court returned to the opaque and oft-contested boundary line between human inventions and discoveries of naturally occurring phenomena. Writing for a unanimous Court, Justice Clarence Thomas cited the Court’s long history of drawing a distinction between compositions of matter that are manmade and those that are naturally occurring ( Table 2 ). The relevant doctrine, however, has been “vague and malleable,” in the words of Justice Felix Frankfurter. 25 Cases have lacked clarity and consistency over the last hundred years, with the criterion that inventions must involve the application of human ingenuity seemingly established in different ways. Major Supreme Court Decisions Defining the Boundary between “Inventions” and “Products of Nature” CaseClaimed InventionDecision American Wood-Paper Co. v. Fibre Disintegrating Co . (1874)Refined cellulose caused by decomposition of the original substanceNot patentable, because the product is well-known to exist in nature and is in a “nearly pure” state Cochrane v. Badische Anilin & Soda Fabrik (1884)Artificial version of natural red dye alizarine produced by manipulating originalNot patentable, because being produced in a novel way does not make it a new composition of matter American Fruit Growers v. Brogdex Co. (1931)Fruit with skin treated with mold-resistant boraxNot patentable, because the mere addition of borax does not lead to the creation of a product that has a “new or distinctive form, quality, or property” Funk Brothers Seed Co. v. Kalo Inoculant Co. (1948)Mixture of several naturally-occurring species of bacteriaNot patentable, because aggregation of species does not produce any new bacteria or enlargement of the activity of the individual strains, and is hence only a discovery of the handiwork of nature Diamond v. Chakrabarty (1980)Microbe with specially-inserted DNA plasmidPatentable, because the bacterium is not found in nature Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics (2013)Isolated BRCA1 and BRCA2 DNA sequences cDNANot patentable, because merely isolating a naturally occurring DNA sequence does not constitute an inventive step Patentable, because cDNA is not found in nature Open in a new tab In considering patents on DNA sequences, Justice Thomas struck a balance between the longstanding principle that discoveries of natural phenomena are not patentable and the competing notion that “all inventions at some level … apply laws of nature, natural phenomena, or abstract ideas” by drawing a line between genomic DNA and cDNA. The isolated DNA sequences were not the proper subject of patents, he wrote, because they were not “markedly different” from the sequences found in nature. Indeed, they derived their diagnostic utility from having the identical sequence. Justice Thomas distinguished Myriad’s claims from those at issue in the landmark 1980 case of Diamond v. Chakrabarty , which ushered in the modern explosion in biotechnology patents. In that case, a bacterium was genetically engineered to contain four naturally occurring plasmids, each of which was useful in breaking down oil. The inventor inserted the plasmids into the microbe’s own DNA, giving rise to an organism not found in nature. No similar transformation of a product of nature was present in Myriad’s claims covering the isolated DNA sequences. The cDNA claims, the Court held, were another matter. Because cDNA is reverse engineered by scientists from mRNA to include only the protein-coding exons, it is different from any naturally occurring genetic material. It thus falls on the invention side of the line between discovery and invention. The parties challenging the cDNA patent claims argued that cDNA is a product of nature because it represents the naturally determined stretch of nucleotides that codes for the mRNA. Its information is what matters, they asserted, and that is the same as naturally occurring DNA. However, the Court focused on the human ingenuity involved in reverse transcribing the sequence as a separate nucleotide array. The fact that some DNA sequences mimicking cDNA may occur by chance in nature was deemed insufficient to undercut its patentability. Myriad represents the third in a series of decisions since 2010 in which the Supreme Court has redefined the boundaries of its three main exclusions from patentability—laws of nature, natural phenomena, and abstract ideas. In each of these categories, the Court has ultimately demonstrated a more restrictive stance on patent eligibility than the US Patent and Trademark Office or the CAFC. The first case, Bilski v. Kappos , involved an abstract idea. In striking down a patent on an investment strategy, the Court announced that it supported a “high enough bar” on patenting abstract ideas that would not “put a chill on creative endeavors and dynamic change.” 26 The patent was invalidated because it “would preempt use of this approach in all fields,” over a vigorous dissent from Justice John Paul Stevens, who agreed with the outcome but wanted to set down an even more formal rule excluding business methods from patent eligibility. Next in 2012 came Mayo v Prometheus , in which the Court unanimously invalidated patent claims on a method of adjusting dosage of thiopurine anti-inflammatory drugs based on evaluating metabolite levels. 23 In that decision, the Court expressed concern “that patent law not inhibit further discovery by improperly tying up the future use of laws of nature,” which in that case was the correlation between dosages of a drug and its physiological effects. 27 Myriad extends this judicial anxiety to the context of DNA molecule claims. In concluding that “groundbreaking, innovative, or even brilliant” discoveries of such natural phenomena are not patentable, the Court stressed the social cost: it “would ‘tie up’ the use of such tools and thereby inhibit future innovation premised upon them.” Implications for Health Care and Innovation Advocacy groups have heralded the Myriad decision as a huge win for patients. “VICTORY!,” the ACLU declared, “Our genes belong to us!” 28 The invalidation of genomic DNA claims—and the appellate court’s earlier refusal to allow patents on methods of detecting BRCA1/2 mutations—permits other companies to market their own genetic tests. Indeed, within days of the Myriad ruling, at least five competitors had announced that they would enter the market. 29 , 30 It is possible that Myriad might respond to this new competition with further infringement litigation. Myriad’s patent claims covering other methods and other “synthetic” DNA sequences such as primers and probes have not been challenged, and the Supreme Court specifically noted that they might indeed cover patentable subject matter. With the prospects for such infringement claims uncertain, however, Myriad may instead seek to capitalize on an important competitive advantage it will continue to have in the market. Having spent nearly two decades amassing a vast, proprietary library of BRCA gene variations while holding its monopoly on testing, Myriad is uniquely well positioned to be able to interpret rare mutations. 31 Ultimately, the end of Myriad’s monopoly should improve access to genetic testing and rapid turnaround of results by driving down price—DNATraits, for example, will charge less than $1,000—and expanding capacity for analyzing samples. When the case was brought, for example, one crucial concern was whether the claims in question blocked whole genome sequence (WGS) analysis. Myriad argued that its patents on “isolated” DNA involved sequestering BRCA sequences from others in the genome and that WGS would not infringe such patents. The ACLU pointed out, however, that the plain meaning of the claims would indeed cover molecules created in doing WGS. Given the outcome of the case (and in light of Myriad’s own oral arguments before the Court), institutions offering WGS should no longer fear lawsuits from parties holding patents on isolated DNA. 31 One countervailing concern from patients’ perspective, however, is quality control. As genetic and pharmacogenomic tests become available from a wider diversity of laboratories, greater regulatory attention to ensure consistency and maintenance of high standards may be required. While the Myriad decision places in jeopardy thousands of patent claims, its effects on biotechnology companies and innovation will probably be modest. A recent analysis estimated that as many as 3,535 unexpired patents on naturally occurring, human gene sequences may be affected, 32 although the applicability of the decision will depend on the specifics of each individual patent claim. Further, because nothing about the Supreme Court’s reasoning would prevent its holding from being applied to non-human genes, several thousand patent claims relating to other organisms may also be affected, with implications for a range of applications outside human medicine. However, the same study showed that patent claims on merely “isolated” DNA were already on the decline. Since 2005, companies have sought to patent naturally occurring gene sequences much less frequently than they did in the past, perhaps because the Patent Office raised the bar for meeting another requirement for patenting an invention—showing that it has practical utility. Some companies also found it more difficult than expected to profit from these DNA sequences and abandoned their patents. 32 , 33 , 34 Claims on DNA that has been engineered, in contrast, have been on the rise—in both frequency and scientific importance 32 —and will continue to enjoy protection following Myriad . 31 Synthetic DNA patents include those on vectors and engineered molecules that could be useful as therapeutics themselves (for example, in gene transfer) or in the process of making therapeutic proteins for so-called “biologic” drugs. Since these technologies remain squarely within the bounds of patentability outlined by the Supreme Court, the effects on innovation emerging from these areas should be minimal. Finally, Myriad is important as an expression of strident judicial opposition to patents on methods of making medical diagnoses. Myriad’s challenged method claims for detecting genetic sequence alterations were struck down unanimously by the CAFC, and the Supreme Court declined to take up the question on appeal. It will therefore be impossible for companies to mimic Myriad’s business model of identifying a gene sequence and attempting to control the production of diagnostics from it. Whether this will reduce private investment in genetic diagnostics and necessitate supplemental public research funding remains to be seen. Conclusion The Myriad decision will be an important symbol for those who seek to foster scientific discovery by protecting and expanding the public domain. It also has symbolic resonance with the ideal that our common humanity cannot be owned. The Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights declares the human genome to be “the heritage of humanity” and that “the human genome in its natural state shall not give rise to financial gains.” 35 The Supreme Court quietly came to a similar conclusion, though with attention to preserving the incentives important for biomedical innovation. It is interesting that although the Supreme Court decision concerns human genes, humanness had no bearing on the decision. Nor does the law allow courts to consider whether patenting human genes—or anything else—should be disallowed on grounds of morality. There is a disconnect, then, between the reasons the Supreme Court articulated for its decision and the rich set of ethical and policy concerns that have animated much of the public interest in the case. Those powerful ideas may or may not have swayed the Court as it considered a vague and open-ended legal doctrine. If the questions raised during oral argument are any indication, however, the justices were primarily interested in innovation—both in preserving patent incentives for investing in research and the blocking effects that patent rights can have on upstream discovery. Viewed in this light, the decision represents a careful balancing act. Acknowledgments Grant funding : Dr. Kesselheim’s work is supported by a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Investigator Award in Health Policy Research and the Greenwall Faculty Scholars Program. Dr. Cook-Deegan’s work is supported by the National Human Genome Research Institute (P50 HG 003391) and the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation. Views are those of the authors and do not reflect those of the funders. Footnotes Conflicts of Interest: None. References 1.Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, 2013 WL 2631062 (June 13, 2013). 2.35 U.S.C. §101. 3.Hall JM, Lee MK, Newman B, Morrow JE, Anderson LA, Huey B, King MC. Linkage of early-onset familial breast cancer to chromosome 17q21. Science. 1990;250:1684–1689. doi: 10.1126/science.2270482. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 4.Goldgar DE, Fields P, Lewis CM, Tran TD, Cannon-Albright LA, Ward JH, Swensen J, Skolnick MH. A large kindred with 17q-linked breast and ovarian cancer: genetic, phenotypic, and genealogical analysis. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1994;86(3):200–209. doi: 10.1093/jnci/86.3.200. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 5.Wooster R, Neuhausen SL, Mangion J, Quirk Y, Ford D, Collins N, et al. Localization of a breast cancer susceptibility gene, BRCA2, to chromosome 13ql2-13. Science. 1994;265:2088–2090. doi: 10.1126/science.8091231. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 6.Davies K, White M. Breakthrough: the race to find the breast cancer gene. John Wiley and Sons; New York, New York: 1996. [ Google Scholar ] 7.Wooster R, Bignell G, Lancaster J, Swift S, Seal S, Mangion J, Collins N, Gregory S, Gumbs C, Micklem G. Identification of the breast cancer susceptibility gene BRCA2. Nature. 1995;378(6559):789–92. doi: 10.1038/378789a0. Erratum in: Nature 1996 Feb 22;379(6567):749. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 8.Couch F, Kamb A, Rommens JM, Simard J, Tavtigian SV, Weber BL. US Patent 5837492. Chromosome 13-linked breast cancer susceptibility gene. 1995 Dec 18; 9.Couch F, Kamb A, Rommens JM, Simard J, Tavtigian SV, Weber BL. US Patent 6033857. Chromosome 13-linked breast cancer susceptibility gene. 1995 Dec 18; 10.Couch F, Kamb A, Rommens JM, Simard J, Tavtigian SV, Weber BL. US Patent 6124104. Chromosome 13-linked breast cancer susceptibility gene. 1995 Dec 18; 11.Maxmen A. Personalized medicine enters a new era. [accessed June 21, 2013];Nova Next. 2013 Mar 19; Available at: http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/next/body/gene-patents-and-personalized-medicine/ 12.Myriad Genetics. [accessed 21 Jun 2013];Supreme Court upholds Myriad’s cDNA patent claims: court also highlights patent eligibility of method claims. 2013 Jun 13; Available at: http://investor.myriad.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=771232 . 13.Cook-Deegan R. Are human genes patentable? Ann Int Med. 2013 Jun 11; doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-159-4-201308200-00668. (epub ahead of print) [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 14.Kesselheim AS, Mello MM. Gene patenting—is the pendulum swinging back? N Engl J Med. 2010;362(20):1855–1858. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp1004026. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 15.Walsh T, Lee MK, Casadei S, Thornton AM, Stray SM, Pennil C, Nord AS, Mandell JB, Swisher EM, King MC. Detection of inherited mutations for breast and ovarian cancer using genomic capture and massively parallel sequencing. PNAS. 2010;107(28):12629–33. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1007983107. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 16.Cho MK, Illangasekare S, Weaver MA, Leonard DG, Merz JF. Effects of patents and licenses on the provision of clinical genetic testing services. J Molec Diagnost. 2003;5(1):3–8. doi: 10.1016/S1525-1578(10)60444-8. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 17.Merz JF, Kriss AG, Leonard DG, Cho MK. Diagnostic testing fails the test. Nature. 2002;415:577–579. doi: 10.1038/415577a. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 18.Williams HL. Intellectual property rights and innovation: evidence from the human genome. J Polit Econ. 2013;121(1):1–27. doi: 10.1086/669706. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 19.Diamond v. Chakrabarty, 447 U.S. 303 (1980). 20.Association for Molecular Pathology v. U.S. Patent & Trademark Office, 702 F.Supp.2d 181 (S.D.N.Y. 2010). 21.Association for Molecular Pathology v. U.S. Patent & Trademark Office, 653 F.3d 1329 (Fed.Cir. 2011). 22.Cook-Deegan R. Law and science collide over human gene patents. Science. 2012;338(6108):745–747. doi: 10.1126/science.1229854. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 23.Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc., 566 U.S. _ 132 S.Ct. 1289 (2012). 24.Association for Molecular Pathology v. U.S. Patent & Trademark Office, 689 F.3d 1303 (Fed.Cir. 2012). 25.Funk Bros. Seed Co. v. Kalo Inoculant Co., 333 U.S. 127 (1948). 26.Bilski v. Kappos, 561 U.S. ___, 130 S.Ct. 3218 (2010). 27.Kesselheim AS, Karlawish J. Biomarkers unbound—the Supreme Court’s ruling on diagnostic-test patents. N Engl J Med. 2012;366(25):2338–40. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp1204164. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 28.Park SS. VICTORY! The Supreme Court decides: our genes belong to us, not companies. [accessed 21 June 2013];Blog of Rights. 2013 Jun 13; Available at: http://www.aclu.org/blog/womens-rights-free-speech-technology-and-liberty/victory-supreme-court-decides-our-genes-belong/ 29.Langreth R, Pettypiece S. Myriad gene patent ruling triggers race for Cancer Tests. [accessed 21 June 2013];Bloomberg Law. 2013 Jun 14; Available at: http://about.bloomberglaw.com/legal-news/myriad-gene-patent-ruling-triggers-race-for-cancer-tests/ 30.Perkel JL. Gene patents decision—everybody wins. [accessed 21 June 2013];The Scientist. 2013 Jun 18; Available at: http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/36076/title/Gene-Patents-Decision--Everybody-Wins/ 31.Rai AK, Cook-Deegan R. Science. Moving beyond “isolated” gene patents. Published online 27 June 2013. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 32.Graff GD, Phillips D, Lei Z, Oh S, Nottenburg C, Pardey PG. Not quite a myriad of gene patents. Nature Biotech. 2013;31(5):404–10. doi: 10.1038/nbt.2568. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 33.Kling J. Where the future went. EMBO Reports. 2005;6:1012–1014. doi: 10.1038/sj.embor.7400553. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 34.Human Genome Patent Report. [accessed 21 Jun 2013];2012 Available at: http://hgpr.org/finalHGPR.pdf . 35.United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. [accessed 27 June 2013];Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights. :Art. 1, 4. Available at: http://portal.unesco.org/en/ev.php-URL_ID=13177&URL_DO=DO_TOPIC&URL_SECTION=201.html . harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe 1 10 Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Evelyn Zumthor May 23, 2025 They said you can’t patent life. Tweak it just enough and suddenly nature belongs to the highest bidder. Welcome to biotech’s holy loophole Reply Share 9 replies by harry blazer and others 9 more comments... Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts