The China Trade Deal - by harry blazer - harry’s Substack harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in The China Trade Deal A Perspective harry blazer May 17, 2025 Share The following is an excerpt from an article by Michael Snyder, which can be found at this link Michael Snyder Article I have got to tell the truth about the agreement that has just been made with China, and the truth is not all rainbows and lollipops. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe First of all, we don’t actually have a “trade deal” with China. What we have is a 90 day “cooling off period” during which we could potentially negotiate a “trade deal” with China. There is an enormous difference between those two things. For 90 days, both sides will reduce tariffs dramatically. Without a doubt, that is a good thing. If we had continued to impose a 145 percent tariff rate on most Chinese products, there would have been empty shelves and shortages all over America. During the “cooling off period”, there will still be tariffs. Most U.S. exports to China will be hit with a 10 percent tariff rate. That is definitely a win. Major news outlets are reporting that most Chinese exports to the United States will be hit with a 30 percent tariff rate during the “cooling off period”, but that is not accurate. On the War Room, Jason Miller explained what is actually happening. According to Miller, “we have 50 percent tariffs on China, they have 10 percent on us”. He got to that figure by adding the 10 percent baseline tariff rate plus the 20 percent fentanyl tariff rate plus the 20 percent tariff rate from Trump’s first term. And this is actually confirmed on the official White House website. It states that the only tariffs that are being removed by the United States are the “additional tariffs” that were imposed on April 8th and April 9th… So that leaves us with a 50 percent tariff rate on Chinese imports during the “cooling off period”, and that is about where U.S. officials were projecting that we would end up. According to U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, the current tariff rate on Chinese imports is a “floor”. In other words, even if a permanent trade deal with China is reached, we shouldn’t expect the tariff rate on Chinese imports to go any lower. Bessent is also telling us that the U.S. is purposely making a strategic decision to become less dependent on Chinese products…Though the U.S. “decoupling” itself from its need for cheap imports from China has been discussed for years, the process has been a slow one and unlikely to ever mean a complete break. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts