If You&#x27;d Like to Know The Story Behind the Fall of Syria harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in If You'd Like to Know The Story Behind the Fall of Syria two links + 1 harry blazer May 12, 2025 Share This analysis is by Paul Craig Roberts. Paul Craig Roberts is a former Assistant Secretary of the US Treasury and former associate editor of the Wall Street Journal (when it was almost a real news rag). I have also included a link to the article he refers to in his editorial by Finian Cunningham. Paul Craig Roberts on the collapse of Syria harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Cunningham on the Fall of Syria AND: Wesley Clark, former commander of NATO forces in Europe, became famous (or infamous depending on whose side your on) for disclosing in interviews and writings the fact that Rumsfeld, Bush, Cheney had plans to overthrow the governments of 7 mostly Moslem nations after 9-11. Here Clark describes the plan in an interview with Amy Goodman on PBS’s Democracy Now: [AMY GOODMAN] Do you see a replay in what happened in the lead-up to the war with Iraq -- the allegations of the weapons of mass destruction, the media leaping onto the bandwagon? [ GEN. WESLEY CLARK ] Well, in a way. But, you know, history doesn’t repeat itself exactly twice. What I did warn about when I testified in front of Congress in 2002, I said if you want to worry about a state, it shouldn’t be Iraq, it should be Iran. But this government, our administration, wanted to worry about Iraq, not Iran. I knew why, because I had been through the Pentagon right after 9/11. About ten days after 9/11, I went through the Pentagon and I saw Secretary Rumsfeld and Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz . I went downstairs just to say hello to some of the people on the Joint Staff who used to work for me, and one of the generals called me in. He said, “Sir, you’ve got to come in and talk to me a second.” I said, “Well, you’re too busy.” He said, “No, no.” He says, “We’ve made the decision we’re going to war with Iraq.” This was on or about the 20th of September. I said, “We’re going to war with Iraq? Why?” He said, “I don’t know.” He said, “I guess they don’t know what else to do.” So I said, “Well, did they find some information connecting Saddam to al-Qaeda?” He said, “No, no.” He says, “There’s nothing new that way. They just made the decision to go to war with Iraq.” He said, “I guess it’s like we don’t know what to do about terrorists, but we’ve got a good military and we can take down governments.” And he said, “I guess if the only tool you have is a hammer, every problem has to look like a nail.” So I came back to see him a few weeks later, and by that time we were bombing in Afghanistan . I said, “Are we still going to war with Iraq?” And he said, “Oh, it’s worse than that.” He reached over on his desk. He picked up a piece of paper. And he said, “I just got this down from upstairs” -- meaning the Secretary of Defense’s office -- “today.” And he said, “This is a memo that describes how we’re going to take out seven countries in five years, starting with Iraq, and then Syria, Lebanon, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and, finishing off, Iran. ” I said, “Is it classified?” He said, “Yes, sir.” I said, “Well, don’t show it to me.” And I saw him a year or so ago, and I said, “You remember that?” He said, “Sir, I didn’t show you that memo! I didn’t show it to you!” My Thought: I think anyone looking objectively at the state of these 7 societies today, in particular Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and Libya, would see dramatic social and cultural degradation as a result of our illegal actions against these countries. Below is a link to an article in Salon that discusses Wesley Clark’s disclosure about the 7 countries. Wesley Clark harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts