How Did China Get All Those Jobs - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in How Did China Get All Those Jobs The Plan is Working harry blazer May 04, 2025 Share excerpt from an article called “Learn to Chode” from the website TheGoodCitizen.live https://thegoodcitizen.live/p/learn-to-chode?r=1657tz&utm_campaign=post&utm_medium=email&triedRedirect=true&utm_source=substack harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Manufacturing wasn’t lost by accident, it was gutted in boardrooms and congressional acts written by lobbyists. The architects of globalization (national decline) called it progress, mouthing slogans about efficiency and modernization while handing off industrial power to foreign interests and domestic monopolists. Real jobs were liquidated and Americans were sold the lie that life would be better if they could all fill storage wars’ garages with cheap shit from China. Both parties signed off on the execution. Bipartisan consensus from the 1990s onward supported trade liberalization, outsourcing, and financial deregulation. Red hat patriots like to blame Democrats, but Republicans were behind all of it 100%, while offering sermons on rugged individualism, secretly shipping the guts of the economy to China, and waving American flags made in China. Together, they polished the guillotine. Globalization was a heist dressed in prosperity-through-financialization drag for the benefit of equity behemoths and hedge funds. And as towns withered and payrolls shrank, the same traitors made sure the sons of unemployed factory workers who still believed in that dying American dream became expendable chaff for the war machine. They lured them to death or IED paraplegia and later suicide through the promise of service paying for college that their parents could no longer afford. They made endless appropriations for bloodshed abroad, while veterans at home begged in parking lots for change. Afghanistan, Syria, Libya, Iraq, Ukraine—everywhere funded, everywhere armed, everywhere burned to ashes for the Empire’s host parasites in Tel Aviv. The men who once forged steel, assembled cars, and mined coal now overdose in Dollar General parking lots while every Israeli has subsidized healthcare and higher education. Dying Empires have historically prioritized three things: war, the ruling classes, and looting the coffers on the backs of the people who become disposable. The great empire of West Israel is now entering the flatline stage. The only “real jobs” are lawyers and doctors who get rich, as the underlings of the oligarch classes tasked with litigating the collapse of diseased and demoralized subjects in preparation for the controlled financial demolition of the currency for their great reset agenda. “You let the Oligarchs feed you lies while they made you fat, poor, and addicted.” Then what follows is a link to a Chinese gentleman’s post making what is in my opinion a sound assessment of the root cause for the trade imbalance that Trump is trying to address through Tariffs and Trade negotiations. There are a few wrong words in the captions but they are easily identified. https://substack.com/@thegoodcitizen/note/c-108744033 My Thoughts: In the Tucker Carlson interview of Catherine Fitts that I refer to in the previous post, Catherine mentions that around 1997/98, the decision was made by big money (covert and overt) “to give up on the United States”. Consequently, huge amounts of investment money went into building up third world manufacturing infrastructure - particularly China’s. Big money basically decided to facilitate the outsourcing of our manufacturing. One reason: The Globalists and their academic lackeys figured out that it was cheaper to manufacture in China and ship back to the USA than it was to manufacture in the USA. Not only was labor an order of magnitude cheaper, regulations were almost non-existent. And China wasn’t the least bit shy about using “dirty” coal or dumping waste into their rivers and air. So in many ways, we outsourced our pollution to China as well, and as a result China is one of the most polluted countries in the world. So we are where we are because of deliberate actions that were taken by corporations and facilitated by government with the blessing of the Deep State. And we hear a lot about China stealing our technology. Really? Well when so much of what you use, even in high tech, is made in China, it’s not that hard to steal it, is it? But is it bad for the military, banking, industrial, intelligence, governmental complex if Russia develops an atomic bomb a few years after us or the Chinese have a couple aircraft carriers when not long ago they had none, or the Chinese have 5th and 6th generation fighters or a big AI footprint? Since the intelligence and military budgets are at an all time high, government intrusion and debt are at an all time high, bankers are more powerful than ever, I guess its all good for business, eh! The plan is working and Problem, Reaction, Solution remains a primary MO. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts