Two Powerful Forces Involving Power - by harry blazer harry’s Substack Subscribe Sign in Two Powerful Forces Involving Power Reflections on Disclosure harry blazer Apr 28, 2025 Share For many decades and perhaps centuries, two powerful forces have played a primary role in shaping our world. !) Those seeking to expand their power, influence and control over others for the aggrandizement of themselves and/or their tribe in accordance with the ideologies (rationalizations) to which they subscribe and who are not constrained by respect for written law or ethical/soocietal norms. harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe 2) Those seeking to expand their power, influence and control over others using Problem, Reaction, Solution (PRS) as a tactic or strategy to do so. This is closely linked to the concept of “Order out of Chaos”, which in turn is closely linked to “False Flags”. When watching Tucker Carlson, I constantly get a kick out of him asking almost every guest “Why is this happening? It doesn’t make any sense.” This question plays into the hands of those who want you to believe that when things go sideways, it’s about incompetence. Or aberrations that couldn’t be predicted. Thus the narratives: JFK, RFK, MLK assassinations weren’t part of a deliberate conspiracy, they were the aberrant acts of individuals. No one could have predicted (or prevented) the OKC bombing and both WTC bombings (1993 and 9-11) because they were the aberrant acts of terrorists. The conclusion of the congressional investigation on 9-11 - it occurred “because of a failure of imagination” - the organizations paid to understand and track terrorists just couldn’t think like a terrorist well enough! How’s that for a euphemism for “incompetence”! But when those organizations paid by the taxpayers to prevent such things from happening get more money as a result of their failures (incompetence) to detect and protect, or when whole new organizations are created on top of organizations that already exist to do what the new organization is tasked to do (like DHS - Department of Homeland Security), then it would behoove us to ask “What is really going on”? What is going on is an OP - a strategic operation to achieve a certain end (objective) by creating a Problem that is designed to create a predictive Reaction (and mindset), that creates the groundwork for a Solution that achieves the objective and can then be implemented with the acquiescence of the citizenry. And that end always involves the reduction in freedom for the citizenry and the expansion of the power, influence and control for those who engineered the OP. So Tucker, the Controlled Chaos plan is working. In this context, why would anyone think that any Congressional investigation is going to lead to Truth? Or that any disclosure of documents after years in the deep freeze is going to reveal for real “Who Dunnit”? In Fletcher Prouty’s seminal book “The Secret Team”, he elucidated 2 significant truths in this regard. Congressional Investigations are designed to give “legitimacy” to a predetermined outcome i.e. to control what gets disclosed while discovering all of the “whos” that know “what”, so “they” and “it” can be dealt with. He also made it clear that the real power and craft is not only in perpetrating an act, but in the ability to cover it up. So we must add to our vocabulary the term “Limited Hangout” - a propaganda technique to try to suppress the revelation of secret information, by deliberately revealing some information to try to confuse and/or prevent the discovery of other more damning information. Wikispooks does a pretty good job of explaining the practice here: https://www.wikispooks.com/wiki/Limited_hangout . All Congressional Investigations at least since WWII need to be viewed in this context. So after 60+ years, and with Allen Dulles, Richard Helms, George H.W. Bush. William Casey in particular as heads of the CIA during that time, and with Allen Dulles himself as a member and the “controller” of the original Warren Commission, what did you expect not to get scrubbed re: the so called “ JKF files”? Same for RFK, MLK, Oklahoma City Bombing, USS Liberty, 9-11….. And do you think that those who had the power in a high security containment center to shut off the cameras, destroy video, incapacitate and shut up the guards, invade the prison, and “suicide” Jeffrey Epstein (if he is in fact dead) don’t have the ability to cover up critical revelations involving that murder and related topics? So one more definition before I sign off: The DEEP STATE, which I define as: A Consortium of military, industrial/technological, banking, intelligence, political, judicial and secret society assets that cohere as needed to expand power, influence and control over others, without regard for the written law or ethical/social norms, for the aggrandizement of themselves and/or their tribe or those they serve in accordance with the ideologies (rationalizations) to which they subscribe, and that has mastery of PRS. Since the modern DEEP STATE has been an architect of or in someway involved in every major event that has shaped our lives since WWII, and since the following is a matter of historical record : &quot;We'll know our disinformation program is complete when everything the American public believes is false.&quot; -William J. Casey, CIA Director*, the only way we will ever get at truth is through the amazing efforts of independent researchers. So if you want to know about the Kennedy Assassination, don’t wait for the DEEP STATE infiltrated government to disclose truth. Read the following books: The Secret Team by Fletcher Prouty JFK by Fletcher Prouty JFK and the Unspeakable by James W. Douglass The Devil’s Chessboard by David Talbot Mary’s Mosaic by Peter Janney I can suggest many others, but these are classics. If you prefer video try: JFK the movie by Oliver Stone The Men Who Killed Kennedy (DVD with 9 parts, perhaps best found on EBAY or here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D8iYLzsYHKI In future posts, I will discuss how we got here. * https://archive.org/details/cia-director-william-casey-disinformation-program-quote-soruce/mode/2up harry’s Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber. Subscribe Share Previous Next Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 harry blazer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts